**Hadoop MapReduce compatibility with Flink**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/dataset/hadoop_map_reduce/>).

#  Flink and Map Reduce compatibility #

Flink is compatible with Apache Hadoop MapReduce interfaces and therefore allows reusing code that was implemented for Hadoop MapReduce.

You can:

  * use Hadoop’s `Writable` [data types](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/datastream/fault-tolerance/serialization/types_serialization/#supported-data-types>) in Flink programs.
  * use any Hadoop `InputFormat` as a [DataSource](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/connectors/dataset/formats/hadoop/#using-hadoop-inputformats>).
  * use any Hadoop `OutputFormat` as a [DataSink](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/connectors/dataset/formats/hadoop/#using-hadoop-outputformats>).
  * use a Hadoop `Mapper` as [FlatMapFunction](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#flatmap>).
  * use a Hadoop `Reducer` as [GroupReduceFunction](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#groupreduce-on-grouped-dataset>).

This document shows how to use existing Hadoop MapReduce code with Flink. Please refer to the [Connecting to other systems](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/deployment/filesystems/overview/#hadoop-file-system-hdfs-and-its-other-implementations>) guide for reading from Hadoop supported file systems.

##  Project Configuration #

Support for Hadoop is contained in the `flink-hadoop-compatibility` Maven module.

Add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` to use hadoop


    <dependency>
    	<groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
    	<artifactId>flink-hadoop-compatibility_2.12</artifactId>
    	<version>1.16.2</version>
    </dependency>


If you want to run your Flink application locally (e.g. from your IDE), you also need to add a `hadoop-client` dependency such as:


    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.apache.hadoop</groupId>
        <artifactId>hadoop-client</artifactId>
        <version>2.8.5</version>
        <scope>provided</scope>
    </dependency>


##  Using Hadoop Mappers and Reducers #

Hadoop Mappers are semantically equivalent to Flink’s [FlatMapFunctions](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#flatmap>) and Hadoop Reducers are equivalent to Flink’s [GroupReduceFunctions](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#groupreduce-on-grouped-dataset>). Flink provides wrappers for implementations of Hadoop MapReduce’s `Mapper` and `Reducer` interfaces, i.e., you can reuse your Hadoop Mappers and Reducers in regular Flink programs. At the moment, only the Mapper and Reduce interfaces of Hadoop’s mapred API (`org.apache.hadoop.mapred`) are supported.

The wrappers take a `DataSet<Tuple2<KEYIN,VALUEIN>>` as input and produce a `DataSet<Tuple2<KEYOUT,VALUEOUT>>` as output where `KEYIN` and `KEYOUT` are the keys and `VALUEIN` and `VALUEOUT` are the values of the Hadoop key-value pairs that are processed by the Hadoop functions. For Reducers, Flink offers a wrapper for a GroupReduceFunction with (`HadoopReduceCombineFunction`) and without a Combiner (`HadoopReduceFunction`). The wrappers accept an optional `JobConf` object to configure the Hadoop Mapper or Reducer.

Flink’s function wrappers are

  * `org.apache.flink.hadoopcompatibility.mapred.HadoopMapFunction`,
  * `org.apache.flink.hadoopcompatibility.mapred.HadoopReduceFunction`, and
  * `org.apache.flink.hadoopcompatibility.mapred.HadoopReduceCombineFunction`.

and can be used as regular Flink [FlatMapFunctions](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#flatmap>) or [GroupReduceFunctions](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#groupreduce-on-grouped-dataset>).

The following example shows how to use Hadoop `Mapper` and `Reducer` functions.


    // Obtain data to process somehow.
    DataSet<Tuple2<LongWritable, Text>> text = [...];

    DataSet<Tuple2<Text, LongWritable>> result = text
      // use Hadoop Mapper (Tokenizer) as MapFunction
      .flatMap(new HadoopMapFunction<LongWritable, Text, Text, LongWritable>(
        new Tokenizer()
      ))
      .groupBy(0)
      // use Hadoop Reducer (Counter) as Reduce- and CombineFunction
      .reduceGroup(new HadoopReduceCombineFunction<Text, LongWritable, Text, LongWritable>(
        new Counter(), new Counter()
      ));


**Please note:** The Reducer wrapper works on groups as defined by Flink’s [groupBy()](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/dataset/transformations/#groupreduce-on-grouped-dataset>) operation. It does not consider any custom partitioners, sort or grouping comparators you might have set in the `JobConf`.

##  Complete Hadoop WordCount Example #

The following example shows a complete WordCount implementation using Hadoop data types, Input- and OutputFormats, and Mapper and Reducer implementations.


    ExecutionEnvironment env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();

    // Set up the Hadoop TextInputFormat.
    Job job = Job.getInstance();
    HadoopInputFormat<LongWritable, Text> hadoopIF =
      new HadoopInputFormat<LongWritable, Text>(
        new TextInputFormat(), LongWritable.class, Text.class, job
      );
    TextInputFormat.addInputPath(job, new Path(inputPath));

    // Read data using the Hadoop TextInputFormat.
    DataSet<Tuple2<LongWritable, Text>> text = env.createInput(hadoopIF);

    DataSet<Tuple2<Text, LongWritable>> result = text
      // use Hadoop Mapper (Tokenizer) as MapFunction
      .flatMap(new HadoopMapFunction<LongWritable, Text, Text, LongWritable>(
        new Tokenizer()
      ))
      .groupBy(0)
      // use Hadoop Reducer (Counter) as Reduce- and CombineFunction
      .reduceGroup(new HadoopReduceCombineFunction<Text, LongWritable, Text, LongWritable>(
        new Counter(), new Counter()
      ));

    // Set up the Hadoop TextOutputFormat.
    HadoopOutputFormat<Text, LongWritable> hadoopOF =
      new HadoopOutputFormat<Text, LongWritable>(
        new TextOutputFormat<Text, LongWritable>(), job
      );
    hadoopOF.getConfiguration().set("mapreduce.output.textoutputformat.separator", " ");
    TextOutputFormat.setOutputPath(job, new Path(outputPath));

    // Emit data using the Hadoop TextOutputFormat.
    result.output(hadoopOF);

    // Execute Program
    env.execute("Hadoop WordCount");


__Back to top