**Legacy Planner**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/table/legacy_planner/>).

#  Legacy Planner #

Table planners are responsible for translating relational operators into an executable, optimized Flink job. Flink supports two different planner implementations; the modern planner (sometimes referred to as `Blink`) and the legacy planner. For production use cases, we recommend the modern planner which is the default.

The legacy planner is in maintenance mode and no longer under active development. The primary reason to continue using the legacy planner is [DataSet](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/dataset/overview/>) interop.

> If you are not using the Legacy planner for DataSet interop, the community strongly encourages you to consider the modern table planner. Both batch and stream processing pipelines can be expressed in the unified `TableEnvironment`.
>
> ** The legacy planner is deprecated and will be dropped in Flink 1.14.**

This page describes how to use the Legacy planner and where its semantics differ from the modern planner.

##  Setup #

###  Dependencies #

When deploying to a cluster, the legacy planner is bundled in Flinks distribution by default. If you want to run the Table API & SQL programs locally within your IDE, you must add the following set of modules to your application.


    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
      <artifactId>flink-table-planner_2.11</artifactId>
      <version>1.13.6</version>
      <scope>provided</scope>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
      <artifactId>flink-streaming-scala_2.11</artifactId>
      <version>1.13.6</version>
      <scope>provided</scope>
    </dependency>


###  Configuring the TableEnvironment #

When creating a `TableEnvironment` the Legacy planner is configured via the `EnvironmentSettings`.

Java


    EnvironmentSettings settings = EnvironmentSettings
        .newInstance()
        .useOldPlanner()
        .inStreamingMode()
        // or in batch mode
        //.inBatchMode()
        .build();

    TableEnvironment tEnv = TableEnvironment.create(settings);


Scala


    val settings = EnvironmentSettings
        .newInstance()
        .useOldPlanner()
        .inStreamingMode()
        // or in batch mode
        //.inBatchMode()
        .build()

    val tEnv = TableEnvironment.create(settings)


`BatchTableEnvironment` may used for [DataSet](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/dataset/overview/>) and [DataStream](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/datastream/overview/>) interop respectively.

Java


    ExecutionEnvironment env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();
    BatchTableEnvironment tEnv = BatchTableEnvironment.create(env);


Scala


    val env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment()
    val tEnv = BatchTableEnvironment.create(env)


Python


    from pyflink.dataset import ExecutionEnvironment
    from pyflink.table import BatchTableEnvironment

    b_env = ExecutionEnvironment.get_execution_environment()
    t_env = BatchTableEnvironment.create(b_env, table_config)


##  Integration with DataSet #

The primary use case for the Legacy planner is interoperation with the DataSet API. To translate `DataSet`s to and from tables, applications must use the `BatchTableEnvironment`.

###  Create a View from a DataSet #

A `DataSet` can be registered in a `BatchTableEnvironment` as a `View`. The schema of the resulting view depends on the data type of the registered collection.

**Note:** Views created from a `DataSet` can be registered as temporary views only.

Java


    BatchTableEnvironment tEnv = ...;
    DataSet<Tuple2<Long, String>> dataset = ...;

    tEnv.createTemporaryView("my-table", dataset, $("myLong"), $("myString"))


Scala


    val tEnv: BatchTableEnvironment = ???
    val dataset: DataSet[(Long, String)] = ???

    tEnv.createTemporaryView("my-table", dataset, $"myLong", $"myString")


###  Create a Table from a DataSet #

A `DataSet` can be directly converted to a `Table` in a `BatchTableEnvironment`. The schema of the resulting view depends on the data type of the registered collection.

Java


    BatchTableEnvironment tEnv = ...;
    DataSet<Tuple2<Long, String>> dataset = ...;

    Table myTable = tEnv.fromDataSet("my-table", dataset, $("myLong"), $("myString"))


Scala


    val tEnv: BatchTableEnvironment = ???
    val dataset: DataSet[(Long, String)] = ???

    val table = tEnv.fromDataSet("my-table", dataset, $"myLong", $"myString")


###  Convert a Table to a DataSet #

A `Table` can be converted to a `DataSet`. In this way, custom DataSet programs can be run on the result of a Table API or SQL query.

When converting from a `Table`, users must specify the data type of the results. Often the most convenient conversion type is `Row`. The following list gives an overview of the features of the different options.

  * **Row** : fields are mapped by position, arbitrary number of fields, support for `null` values, no type-safe access.
  * **POJO** : fields are mapped by name (POJO fields must be named as `Table` fields), arbitrary number of fields, support for `null` values, type-safe access.
  * **Case Class** : fields are mapped by position, no support for `null` values, type-safe access.
  * **Tuple** : fields are mapped by position, limitation to 22 (Scala) or 25 (Java) fields, no support for `null` values, type-safe access.
  * **Atomic Type** : `Table` must have a single field, no support for `null` values, type-safe access.

Java


    BatchTableEnvironment tableEnv = BatchTableEnvironment.create(env);

    Table table = tableEnv.fromValues(
        DataTypes.Row(
            DataTypes.FIELD("name", DataTypes.STRING()),
            DataTypes.FIELD("age", DataTypes.INT()),
        row("john", 35),
        row("sarah", 32));

    // Convert the Table into a DataSet of Row by specifying a class
    DataSet<Row> dsRow = tableEnv.toDataSet(table, Row.class);

    // Convert the Table into a DataSet of Tuple2<String, Integer> via a TypeInformation
    TupleTypeInfo<Tuple2<String, Integer>> tupleType = new TupleTypeInfo<>(Types.STRING(), Types.INT());
    DataSet<Tuple2<String, Integer>> dsTuple = tableEnv.toDataSet(table, tupleType);


Scala


    val tableEnv = BatchTableEnvironment.create(env)

    val table = tableEnv.fromValues(
        DataTypes.Row(
            DataTypes.FIELD("name", DataTypes.STRING()),
            DataTypes.FIELD("age", DataTypes.INT()),
        row("john", 35),
        row("sarah", 32));

    // Convert the Table into a DataSet of Row
    val dsRow: DataSet[Row] = tableEnv.toDataSet[Row](table)

    // Convert the Table into a DataSet of Tuple2[String, Int]
    val dsTuple: DataSet[(String, Int)] = tableEnv.toDataSet[(String, Int)](table)


Attention **Once the Table is converted to a DataSet, we must use the ExecutionEnvironment.execute method to execute the DataSet program.**

##  Data Types #

The legacy planner, introduced before Flink 1.9, primarily supports type information. It has only limited support for data types. It is possible to declare data types that can be translated into type information such that the legacy planner understands them.

The following table summarizes the difference between data type and type information. Most simple types, as well as the row type remain the same. Time types, array types, and the decimal type need special attention. Other hints as the ones mentioned are not allowed.

For the _Type Information_ column the table omits the prefix `org.apache.flink.table.api.Types`.

For the _Data Type Representation_ column the table omits the prefix `org.apache.flink.table.api.DataTypes`.

Type Information | Java Expression String | Data Type Representation | Remarks for Data Type
---|---|---|---
`STRING()` | `STRING` | `STRING()` |
`BOOLEAN()` | `BOOLEAN` | `BOOLEAN()` |
`BYTE()` | `BYTE` | `TINYINT()` |
`SHORT()` | `SHORT` | `SMALLINT()` |
`INT()` | `INT` | `INT()` |
`LONG()` | `LONG` | `BIGINT()` |
`FLOAT()` | `FLOAT` | `FLOAT()` |
`DOUBLE()` | `DOUBLE` | `DOUBLE()` |
`ROW(...)` | `ROW<...>` | `ROW(...)` |
`BIG_DEC()` | `DECIMAL` | [`DECIMAL()`] | Not a 1:1 mapping as precision and scale are ignored and Java’s variable precision and scale are used.
`SQL_DATE()` | `SQL_DATE` | `DATE()`
`.bridgedTo(java.sql.Date.class)` |
`SQL_TIME()` | `SQL_TIME` | `TIME(0)`
`.bridgedTo(java.sql.Time.class)` |
`SQL_TIMESTAMP()` | `SQL_TIMESTAMP` | `TIMESTAMP(3)`
`.bridgedTo(java.sql.Timestamp.class)` |
`INTERVAL_MONTHS()` | `INTERVAL_MONTHS` | `INTERVAL(MONTH())`
`.bridgedTo(Integer.class)` |
`INTERVAL_MILLIS()` | `INTERVAL_MILLIS` | `INTERVAL(DataTypes.SECOND(3))`
`.bridgedTo(Long.class)` |
`PRIMITIVE_ARRAY(...)` | `PRIMITIVE_ARRAY<...>` | `ARRAY(DATATYPE.notNull()`
`.bridgedTo(PRIMITIVE.class))` | Applies to all JVM primitive types except for `byte`.
`PRIMITIVE_ARRAY(BYTE())` | `PRIMITIVE_ARRAY<BYTE>` | `BYTES()` |
`OBJECT_ARRAY(...)` | `OBJECT_ARRAY<...>` | `ARRAY(`
`DATATYPE.bridgedTo(OBJECT.class))` |
`MULTISET(...)` |  | `MULTISET(...)` |
`MAP(..., ...)` | `MAP<...,...>` | `MAP(...)` |
other generic types |  | `RAW(...)` |

Attention If there is a problem with the new type system. Users can fallback to type information defined in `org.apache.flink.table.api.Types` at any time.

##  Unsupported Features #

The following features are not supported by the legacy planner.

  * [Deduplication](//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/#deduplication %})
  * [Key Value Configurations](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/table/config/#overview>)
  * [Streaming Aggregation Optimization](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/table/tuning/>)
  * Streaming mode Grouping sets, Rollup and Cube aggregations
  * [Top-N](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/#top-n>)
  * [Versioned Tables](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/table/concepts/versioned_tables/>)

##  Unsupported Built-In Functions #

The following built-in functions are not supported by the legacy planner.

  * `PI`
  * `ASCII(string)`
  * `CHR(integer)`
  * `DECODE(binary, string)`
  * `ENCODE(string1, string2)`
  * `INSTR(string1, string2)`
  * `LEFT(string, integer)`
  * `RIGHT(string, integer)`
  * `LOCATE(string1, string2[, integer])`
  * `PARSE_URL(string1, string2[, string3])`
  * `REGEXP(string1, string2)`
  * `REVERSE(string)`
  * `SPLIT_INDEX(string1, string2, integer1)`
  * `STR_TO_MAP(string1[, string2, string3]])`
  * `SUBSTR(string[, integer1[, integer2]])`
  * `CONVERT_TZ(string1, string2, string3)`
  * `FROM_UNIXTIME(numeric[, string])`
  * `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()`
  * `UNIX_TIMESTAMP(string1[, string2])`
  * `TO_DATE(string1[, string2])`
  * `TO_TIMESTAMP(string1[, string2])`
  * `NOW()`
  * `IF(condition, true_value, false_value)`
  * `IS_ALPHA(string)`
  * `IS_DECIMAL(string)`
  * `IS_DIGIT(string)`
  * `VARIANCE([ ALL | DISTINCT ] expression)`
  * `RANK()`
  * `DENSE_RANK()`
  * `ROW_NUMBER()`
  * `LEAD(expression [, offset] [, default] )`
  * `LAG(expression [, offset] [, default])`
  * `FIRST_VALUE(expression)`
  * `LAST_VALUE(expression)`
  * `LISTAGG(expression [, separator])`

> `DATE_FORMAT(timestamp, string)` is available in the legacy planner but has serious bugs and should not be used. Please implement a custom UDF instead or use `EXTRACT` as a workaround.