**DataGen**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/table/datagen/>).

#  DataGen SQL Connector #

Scan Source: Bounded Scan Source: UnBounded

The DataGen connector allows for creating tables based on in-memory data generation. This is useful when developing queries locally without access to external systems such as Kafka. Tables can include [Computed Column syntax](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.13/docs/dev/table/sql/create/#create-table>) which allows for flexible record generation.

The DataGen connector is built-in, no additional dependencies are required.

##  Usage #

By default, a DataGen table will create an unbounded number of rows with a random value for each column. For variable sized types, char/varchar/string/array/map/multiset, the length can be specified. Additionally, a total number of rows can be specified, resulting in a bounded table.

There also exists a sequence generator, where users specify a sequence of start and end values. If any column in a table is a sequence type, the table will be bounded and end with the first sequence completes.

Time types are always the local machines current system time.


    CREATE TABLE Orders (
        order_number BIGINT,
        price        DECIMAL(32,2),
        buyer        ROW<first_name STRING, last_name STRING>,
        order_time   TIMESTAMP(3)
    ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'datagen'
    )


Often, the data generator connector is used in conjuction with the `LIKE` clause to mock out physical tables.


    CREATE TABLE Orders (
        order_number BIGINT,
        price        DECIMAL(32,2),
        buyer        ROW<first_name STRING, last_name STRING>,
        order_time   TIMESTAMP(3)
    ) WITH (...)

    -- create a bounded mock table
    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE GenOrders
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'number-of-rows' = '10'
    )
    LIKE Orders (EXCLUDING ALL)


##  Types #

Type | Supported Generators | Notes
---|---|---
BOOLEAN | random |
CHAR | random / sequence |
VARCHAR | random / sequence |
STRING | random / sequence |
DECIMAL | random / sequence |
TINYINT | random / sequence |
SMALLINT | random / sequence |
INT | random / sequence |
BIGINT | random / sequence |
FLOAT | random / sequence |
DOUBLE | random / sequence |
DATE | random | Always resolves to the current date of the local machine.
TIME | random | Always resolves to the current time of the local machine.
TIMESTAMP | random | Always resolves to the current timestamp of the local machine.
TIMESTAMP_LTZ | random | Always resolves to the current timestamp of the local machine.
INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH | random |
INTERVAL DAY TO MONTH | random |
ROW | random | Generates a row with random subfields.
ARRAY | random | Generates an array with random entries.
MAP | random | Generates a map with random entries.
MULTISET | random | Generates a multiset with random entries.

##  Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---

##### connector

| required | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be 'datagen'.

##### rows-per-second

| optional | 10000 | Long | Rows per second to control the emit rate.

##### number-of-rows

| optional | (none) | Long | The total number of rows to emit. By default, the table is unbounded.

##### fields.#.kind

| optional | random | String | Generator of this '#' field. Can be 'sequence' or 'random'.

##### fields.#.min

| optional | (Minimum value of type) | (Type of field) | Minimum value of random generator, work for numeric types.

##### fields.#.max

| optional | (Maximum value of type) | (Type of field) | Maximum value of random generator, work for numeric types.

##### fields.#.length

| optional | 100 | Integer | Size or length of the collection for generating char/varchar/string/array/map/multiset types.

##### fields.#.start

| optional | (none) | (Type of field) | Start value of sequence generator.

##### fields.#.end

| optional | (none) | (Type of field) | End value of sequence generator.