**ALTER Statements**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/table/sql/alter/>).

#  ALTER Statements #

ALTER statements are used to modified a registered table/view/function definition in the [Catalog](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/table/catalogs/>).

Flink SQL supports the following ALTER statements for now:

  * ALTER TABLE
  * ALTER VIEW
  * ALTER DATABASE
  * ALTER FUNCTION

##  Run an ALTER statement #

Java

ALTER statements can be executed with the `executeSql()` method of the `TableEnvironment`. The `executeSql()` method returns ‘OK’ for a successful ALTER operation, otherwise will throw an exception.

The following examples show how to run an ALTER statement in `TableEnvironment`.

Scala

ALTER statements can be executed with the `executeSql()` method of the `TableEnvironment`. The `executeSql()` method returns ‘OK’ for a successful ALTER operation, otherwise will throw an exception.

The following examples show how to run an ALTER statement in `TableEnvironment`.

Python

ALTER statements can be executed with the `execute_sql()` method of the `TableEnvironment`. The `execute_sql()` method returns ‘OK’ for a successful ALTER operation, otherwise will throw an exception.

The following examples show how to run an ALTER statement in `TableEnvironment`.

SQL CLI

ALTER statements can be executed in [SQL CLI](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/table/sqlclient/>).

The following examples show how to run an ALTER statement in SQL CLI.

Java


    EnvironmentSettings settings = EnvironmentSettings.newInstance()...
    TableEnvironment tableEnv = TableEnvironment.create(settings);

    // register a table named "Orders"
    tableEnv.executeSql("CREATE TABLE Orders (`user` BIGINT, product STRING, amount INT) WITH (...)");

    // a string array: ["Orders"]
    String[] tables = tableEnv.listTables();
    // or tableEnv.executeSql("SHOW TABLES").print();

    // rename "Orders" to "NewOrders"
    tableEnv.executeSql("ALTER TABLE Orders RENAME TO NewOrders;");

    // a string array: ["NewOrders"]
    String[] tables = tableEnv.listTables();
    // or tableEnv.executeSql("SHOW TABLES").print();


Scala


    val tableEnv = TableEnvironment.create(...)

    // register a table named "Orders"
    tableEnv.executeSql("CREATE TABLE Orders (`user` BIGINT, product STRING, amount INT) WITH (...)")

    // a string array: ["Orders"]
    val tables = tableEnv.listTables()
    // or tableEnv.executeSql("SHOW TABLES").print()

    // rename "Orders" to "NewOrders"
    tableEnv.executeSql("ALTER TABLE Orders RENAME TO NewOrders;")

    // a string array: ["NewOrders"]
    val tables = tableEnv.listTables()
    // or tableEnv.executeSql("SHOW TABLES").print()


Python


    table_env = TableEnvironment.create(...)

    # a string array: ["Orders"]
    tables = table_env.list_tables()
    # or table_env.execute_sql("SHOW TABLES").print()

    # rename "Orders" to "NewOrders"
    table_env.execute_sql("ALTER TABLE Orders RENAME TO NewOrders;")

    # a string array: ["NewOrders"]
    tables = table_env.list_tables()
    # or table_env.execute_sql("SHOW TABLES").print()


SQL CLI


    Flink SQL> CREATE TABLE Orders (`user` BIGINT, product STRING, amount INT) WITH (...);
    [INFO] Table has been created.

    Flink SQL> SHOW TABLES;
    Orders

    Flink SQL> ALTER TABLE Orders RENAME TO NewOrders;
    [INFO] Table has been removed.

    Flink SQL> SHOW TABLES;
    NewOrders


##  ALTER TABLE #

  * Rename Table



    ALTER TABLE [catalog_name.][db_name.]table_name RENAME TO new_table_name


Rename the given table name to another new table name.

  * Set or Alter Table Properties



    ALTER TABLE [catalog_name.][db_name.]table_name SET (key1=val1, key2=val2, ...)


Set one or more properties in the specified table. If a particular property is already set in the table, override the old value with the new one.

##  ALTER VIEW #


    ALTER VIEW [catalog_name.][db_name.]view_name RENAME TO new_view_name


Renames a given view to a new name within the same catalog and database.


    ALTER VIEW [catalog_name.][db_name.]view_name AS new_query_expression


Changes the underlying query defining the given view to a new query.

##  ALTER DATABASE #


    ALTER DATABASE [catalog_name.]db_name SET (key1=val1, key2=val2, ...)


Set one or more properties in the specified database. If a particular property is already set in the database, override the old value with the new one.

##  ALTER FUNCTION #


    ALTER [TEMPORARY|TEMPORARY SYSTEM] FUNCTION
      [IF EXISTS] [catalog_name.][db_name.]function_name
      AS identifier [LANGUAGE JAVA|SCALA|PYTHON]


Alter a catalog function with the new identifier and optional language tag. If a function doesn’t exist in the catalog, an exception is thrown.

If the language tag is JAVA/SCALA, the identifier is the full classpath of the UDF. For the implementation of Java/Scala UDF, please refer to [User-defined Functions](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/table/functions/udfs/>) for more details.

If the language tag is PYTHON, the identifier is the fully qualified name of the UDF, e.g. `pyflink.table.tests.test_udf.add`. For the implementation of Python UDF, please refer to [Python UDFs](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/python/table/udfs/python_udfs/>) for more details.

**TEMPORARY**

Alter temporary catalog function that has catalog and database namespaces and overrides catalog functions.

**TEMPORARY SYSTEM**

Alter temporary system function that has no namespace and overrides built-in functions

**IF EXISTS**

If the function doesn’t exist, nothing happens.

**LANGUAGE JAVA|SCALA|PYTHON**

Language tag to instruct flink runtime how to execute the function. Currently only JAVA, SCALA and PYTHON are supported, the default language for a function is JAVA.