**Checkpoints**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/ops/state/checkpoints/>).

#  Checkpoints #

##  Overview #

Checkpoints make state in Flink fault tolerant by allowing state and the corresponding stream positions to be recovered, thereby giving the application the same semantics as a failure-free execution.

See [Checkpointing](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/fault-tolerance/checkpointing/>) for how to enable and configure checkpoints for your program.

To understand the differences between checkpoints and [savepoints](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/state/savepoints/>) see [checkpoints vs. savepoints](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/state/checkpoints_vs_savepoints/>).

##  Checkpoint Storage #

When checkpointing is enabled, managed state is persisted to ensure consistent recovery in case of failures. Where the state is persisted during checkpointing depends on the chosen **Checkpoint Storage**.

##  Available Checkpoint Storage Options #

Out of the box, Flink bundles these checkpoint storage types:

  * _JobManagerCheckpointStorage_
  * _FileSystemCheckpointStorage_

> If a checkpoint directory is configured `FileSystemCheckpointStorage` will be used, otherwise the system will use the `JobManagerCheckpointStorage`.

###  The JobManagerCheckpointStorage #

The _JobManagerCheckpointStorage_ stores checkpoint snapshots in the JobManagerŌĆÖs heap.

It can be configured to fail the checkpoint if it goes over a certain size to avoid `OutOfMemoryError`ŌĆÖs on the JobManager. To set this feature, users can instantiate a `JobManagerCheckpointStorage` with the corresponding max size:


    new JobManagerCheckpointStorage(MAX_MEM_STATE_SIZE);


Limitations of the `JobManagerCheckpointStorage`:

  * The size of each individual state is by default limited to 5 MB. This value can be increased in the constructor of the `JobManagerCheckpointStorage`.
  * Irrespective of the configured maximal state size, the state cannot be larger than the Pekko frame size (see [Configuration](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/>)).
  * The aggregate state must fit into the JobManager memory.

The JobManagerCheckpointStorage is encouraged for:

  * Local development and debugging
  * Jobs that use very little state, such as jobs that consist only of record-at-a-time functions (Map, FlatMap, Filter, ŌĆ”). The Kafka Consumer requires very little state.

###  The FileSystemCheckpointStorage #

The _FileSystemCheckpointStorage_ is configured with a file system URL (type, address, path), such as ŌĆ£hdfs://namenode:40010/flink/checkpointsŌĆØ or ŌĆ£file:///data/flink/checkpointsŌĆØ.

Upon checkpointing, it writes state snapshots into files in the configured file system and directory. Minimal metadata is stored in the JobManagerŌĆÖs memory (or, in high-availability mode, in the metadata checkpoint).

If a checkpoint directory is specified, `FileSystemCheckpointStorage` will be used to persist checkpoint snapshots.

The `FileSystemCheckpointStorage` is encouraged for:

  * All high-availability setups.

##  Retained Checkpoints #

Checkpoints are by default not retained and are only used to resume a job from failures. They are deleted when a program is cancelled. You can, however, configure periodic checkpoints to be retained. Depending on the configuration these _retained_ checkpoints are _not_ automatically cleaned up when the job fails or is canceled. This way, you will have a checkpoint around to resume from if your job fails.


    CheckpointConfig config = env.getCheckpointConfig();
    config.setExternalizedCheckpointRetention(ExternalizedCheckpointRetention.RETAIN_ON_CANCELLATION);


The `ExternalizedCheckpointRetention` mode configures what happens with checkpoints when you cancel the job:

  * **`ExternalizedCheckpointRetention.RETAIN_ON_CANCELLATION`** : Retain the checkpoint when the job is cancelled. Note that you have to manually clean up the checkpoint state after cancellation in this case.

  * **`ExternalizedCheckpointRetention.DELETE_ON_CANCELLATION`** : Delete the checkpoint when the job is cancelled. The checkpoint state will only be available if the job fails.

###  Directory Structure #

Similarly to [savepoints](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/state/savepoints/>), a checkpoint consists of a meta data file and, depending on the state backend, some additional data files. The meta data file and data files are stored in the directory that is configured via `execution.checkpointing.dir` in the configuration files, and also can be specified for per job in the code.

The current checkpoint directory layout ([introduced by FLINK-8531](<https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-8531>)) is as follows:


    /user-defined-checkpoint-dir
        /{job-id}
            |
            + --shared/
            + --taskowned/
            + --chk-1/
            + --chk-2/
            + --chk-3/
            ...


The **SHARED** directory is for state that is possibly part of multiple checkpoints, **TASKOWNED** is for state that must never be dropped by the JobManager, and **EXCLUSIVE** is for state that belongs to one checkpoint only.

> The checkpoint directory is not part of a public API and can be changed in the future release.

####  Configure globally via configuration files #


    execution.checkpointing.dir: hdfs:///checkpoints/


####  Configure for per job on the checkpoint configuration #


    Configuration config = new Configuration();
    config.set(CheckpointingOptions.CHECKPOINT_STORAGE, "filesystem");
    config.set(CheckpointingOptions.CHECKPOINTS_DIRECTORY, "hdfs:///checkpoints-data/");
    env.configure(config);


####  Configure with checkpoint storage instance #

Alternatively, checkpoint storage can be set by specifying the desired checkpoint storage instance which allows for setting low level configurations such as write buffer sizes.


    Configuration config = new Configuration();
    config.set(CheckpointingOptions.CHECKPOINT_STORAGE, "filesystem");
    config.set(CheckpointingOptions.CHECKPOINTS_DIRECTORY, "hdfs:///checkpoints-data/");
    config.set(CheckpointingOptions.FS_WRITE_BUFFER_SIZE, FILE_SIZE_THESHOLD);
    env.configure(config);


###  Resuming from a retained checkpoint #

A job may be resumed from a checkpoint just as from a savepoint by using the checkpointŌĆÖs meta data file instead (see the [savepoint restore guide](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/state/savepoints/#resuming-from-savepoints>)). Note that if the meta data file is not self-contained, the jobmanager needs to have access to the data files it refers to (see Directory Structure above).


    $ bin/flink run -s :checkpointMetaDataPath [:runArgs]


__Back to top