**Metric Reporters**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/deployment/metric_reporters/>).

#  Metric Reporters #

Flink allows reporting metrics to external systems. For more information about Flink’s metric system go to the [metric system documentation](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/metrics/>).

Metrics can be exposed to an external system by configuring one or several reporters in [Flink configuration file](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/config/#flink-configuration-file>). These reporters will be instantiated on each job and task manager when they are started.

Below is a list of parameters that are generally applicable to all reporters. All properties are configured by setting `metrics.reporter.<reporter_name>.<property>` in the configuration. Reporters may additionally offer implementation-specific parameters, which are documented in the respective reporter’s section.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### factory.class

| (none) | String | The reporter factory class to use for the reporter named <name>.

##### interval

| 10 s | Duration | The reporter interval to use for the reporter named <name>. Only applicable to push-based reporters.

##### scope.delimiter

| "." | String | The delimiter used to assemble the metric identifier for the reporter named <name>.

##### scope.variables.additional

|  | Map | The map of additional variables that should be included for the reporter named <name>. Only applicable to tag-based reporters.

##### scope.variables.excludes

| "." | String | The set of variables that should be excluded for the reporter named <name>. Only applicable to tag-based reporters.

##### filter.includes

| "*:*:*" | List<String> | The metrics that should be included for the reporter named <name>. Filters are specified as a list, with each filter following this format:
`<scope>[:<name>[,<name>][:<type>[,<type>]]]`
A metric matches a filter if the scope pattern and at least one of the name patterns and at least one of the types match.

  * scope: Filters based on the logical scope.
Specified as a pattern where `*` matches any sequence of characters and `.` separates scope components.

For example:
"`jobmanager.job`" matches any job-related metrics on the JobManager,
"`*.job`" matches all job-related metrics and
"`*.job.*`" matches all metrics below the job-level (i.e., task/operator metrics etc.).


  * name: Filters based on the metric name.
Specified as a comma-separate list of patterns where `*` matches any sequence of characters.

For example, "`*Records*,*Bytes*`" matches any metrics where the name contains `"Records" or "Bytes"`.


  * type: Filters based on the metric type. Specified as a comma-separated list of metric types: `[counter, meter, gauge, histogram]`

Examples:
  * "`*:numRecords*`" Matches metrics like `numRecordsIn`.
  * "`*.job.task.operator:numRecords*`" Matches metrics like `numRecordsIn` on the operator level.
  * "`*.job.task.operator:numRecords*:meter`" Matches meter metrics like `numRecordsInPerSecond` on the operator level.
  * "`*:numRecords*,numBytes*:counter,meter`" Matches all counter/meter metrics like or `numRecordsInPerSecond`.



##### filter.excludes

|  | List<String> | The metrics that should be excluded for the reporter named <name>. The format is identical to `filter.includes`


##### <parameter>

| (none) | String | Configures the parameter <parameter> for the reporter named <name>.

All reporter configurations must contain the `factory.class` property. Some reporters (referred to as `Scheduled`) allow specifying a reporting `interval`.

Example reporter configuration that specifies multiple reporters:


    metrics.reporters: my_jmx_reporter,my_other_reporter

    metrics.reporter.my_jmx_reporter.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.jmx.JMXReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.my_jmx_reporter.port: 9020-9040
    metrics.reporter.my_jmx_reporter.scope.variables.excludes: job_id;task_attempt_num
    metrics.reporter.my_jmx_reporter.scope.variables.additional: cluster_name:my_test_cluster,tag_name:tag_value

    metrics.reporter.my_other_reporter.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.graphite.GraphiteReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.my_other_reporter.host: 192.168.1.1
    metrics.reporter.my_other_reporter.port: 10000


**Important:** The jar containing the reporter must be accessible when Flink is started. Reporters are loaded as [plugins](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/deployment/filesystems/plugins/>). All reporters documented on this page are available by default.

You can write your own `Reporter` by implementing the `org.apache.flink.metrics.reporter.MetricReporter` interface. If the Reporter should send out reports regularly you have to implement the `Scheduled` interface as well. Be careful that `report()` method must not block for a significant amount of time, and any reporter needing more time should instead run the operation asynchronously. By additionally implementing a `MetricReporterFactory` your reporter can also be loaded as a plugin.

##  Identifiers vs. tags #

There are generally 2 formats for how reporters export metrics.

Identifier-based reporters assemble a flat string containing all scope information and the metric name. An example could be `job.MyJobName.numRestarts`.

Tag-based reporters on the other hand define a generic class of metrics consisting of a logical scope and metric name (e.g., `job.numRestarts`), and report a particular instance of said metric as a set of `key-value` pairs, so called “tags” or “variables” (e.g., “jobName=MyJobName”).

##  Push vs. Pull #

Metrics are exported either via pushes or pulls.

Push-based reporters usually implement the `Scheduled` interface and periodically send a summary of current metrics to an external system.

Pull-based reporters are queried from an external system instead.

##  Reporters #

The following sections list the supported reporters.

###  JMX #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.jmx.JMXReporter) #

Type: pull/tags

Parameters:

  * `port` \- (optional) the port on which JMX listens for connections. In order to be able to run several instances of the reporter on one host (e.g. when one TaskManager is colocated with the JobManager) it is advisable to use a port range like `9250-9260`. When a range is specified the actual port is shown in the relevant job or task manager log. If this setting is set Flink will start an extra JMX connector for the given port/range. Metrics are always available on the default local JMX interface.

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.jmx.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.jmx.JMXReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.jmx.port: 8789


Metrics exposed through JMX are identified by a domain and a list of key-properties, which together form the object name.

The domain always begins with `org.apache.flink` followed by a generalized metric identifier. In contrast to the usual identifier it is not affected by scope-formats, does not contain any variables and is constant across jobs. An example for such a domain would be `org.apache.flink.job.task.numBytesOut`.

The key-property list contains the values for all variables, regardless of configured scope formats, that are associated with a given metric. An example for such a list would be `host=localhost,job_name=MyJob,task_name=MyTask`.

The domain thus identifies a metric class, while the key-property list identifies one (or multiple) instances of that metric.

###  Graphite #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.graphite.GraphiteReporter) #

Type: push/identifier

Parameters:

  * `host` \- the Graphite server host
  * `port` \- the Graphite server port
  * `protocol` \- protocol to use (TCP/UDP)

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.grph.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.graphite.GraphiteReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.grph.host: localhost
    metrics.reporter.grph.port: 2003
    metrics.reporter.grph.protocol: TCP
    metrics.reporter.grph.interval: 60 SECONDS


###  InfluxDB #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.influxdb.InfluxdbReporter) #

Type: push/tags

Parameters:

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### connectTimeout

| 10 s | Duration | (optional) the InfluxDB connect timeout for metrics

##### consistency

| ONE | Enum | (optional) the InfluxDB consistency level for metrics

Possible values:

  * "ALL"
  * "ANY"
  * "ONE"
  * "QUORUM"



##### db

| (none) | String | the InfluxDB database to store metrics

##### host

| (none) | String | the InfluxDB server host

##### password

| (none) | String | (optional) InfluxDB username's password used for authentication

##### port

| 8086 | Integer | the InfluxDB server port

##### retentionPolicy

| (none) | String | (optional) the InfluxDB retention policy for metrics

##### scheme

| http | Enum | the InfluxDB schema

Possible values:

  * "http"
  * "https"



##### username

| (none) | String | (optional) InfluxDB username used for authentication

##### writeTimeout

| 10 s | Duration | (optional) the InfluxDB write timeout for metrics

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.influxdb.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.influxdb.InfluxdbReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.scheme: http
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.host: localhost
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.port: 8086
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.db: flink
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.username: flink-metrics
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.password: qwerty
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.retentionPolicy: one_hour
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.consistency: ANY
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.connectTimeout: 60000
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.writeTimeout: 60000
    metrics.reporter.influxdb.interval: 60 SECONDS


The reporter would send metrics using http protocol to the InfluxDB server with the specified retention policy (or the default policy specified on the server). All Flink metrics variables (see [List of all Variables](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/metrics/#list-of-all-variables>)) are exported as InfluxDB tags.

###  Prometheus #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.prometheus.PrometheusReporter) #

Type: pull/tags

Parameters:

  * `port` \- (optional) the port the Prometheus exporter listens on, defaults to [9249](<https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/wiki/Default-port-allocations>). In order to be able to run several instances of the reporter on one host (e.g. when one TaskManager is colocated with the JobManager) it is advisable to use a port range like `9250-9260`.
  * `filterLabelValueCharacters` \- (optional) Specifies whether to filter label value characters. If enabled, all characters not matching [a-zA-Z0-9:_] will be removed, otherwise no characters will be removed. Before disabling this option please ensure that your label values meet the [Prometheus requirements](<https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/#metric-names-and-labels>).

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.prom.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.prometheus.PrometheusReporterFactory


Flink metric types are mapped to Prometheus metric types as follows:

Flink | Prometheus | Note
---|---|---
Counter | Gauge | Prometheus counters cannot be decremented.
Gauge | Gauge | Only numbers and booleans are supported.
Histogram | Summary | Quantiles .5, .75, .95, .98, .99 and .999
Meter | Gauge | The gauge exports the meter’s rate.

All Flink metrics variables (see [List of all Variables](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/metrics/#list-of-all-variables>)) are exported to Prometheus as labels.

###  PrometheusPushGateway #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.prometheus.PrometheusPushGatewayReporter) #

Type: push/tags

Parameters:

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### deleteOnShutdown

| true | Boolean | Specifies whether to delete metrics from the PushGateway on shutdown. Flink will try its best to delete the metrics but this is not guaranteed. See [here](<https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-13787>) for more details.

##### filterLabelValueCharacters

| true | Boolean | Specifies whether to filter label value characters. If enabled, all characters not matching [a-zA-Z0-9:_] will be removed, otherwise no characters will be removed. Before disabling this option please ensure that your label values meet the [Prometheus requirements](<https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/#metric-names-and-labels>).

##### groupingKey

| (none) | String | Specifies the grouping key which is the group and global labels of all metrics. The label name and value are separated by '=', and labels are separated by ';', e.g., `k1=v1;k2=v2`. Please ensure that your grouping key meets the [Prometheus requirements](<https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/data_model/#metric-names-and-labels>).

##### hostUrl

| (none) | String | The PushGateway server host URL including scheme, host name, and port.

##### jobName

| (none) | String | The job name under which metrics will be pushed

##### randomJobNameSuffix

| true | Boolean | Specifies whether a random suffix should be appended to the job name.

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.promgateway.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.prometheus.PrometheusPushGatewayReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.promgateway.hostUrl: http://localhost:9091
    metrics.reporter.promgateway.jobName: myJob
    metrics.reporter.promgateway.randomJobNameSuffix: true
    metrics.reporter.promgateway.deleteOnShutdown: false
    metrics.reporter.promgateway.groupingKey: k1=v1;k2=v2
    metrics.reporter.promgateway.interval: 60 SECONDS


The PrometheusPushGatewayReporter pushes metrics to a [Pushgateway](<https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway>), which can be scraped by Prometheus.

Please see the [Prometheus documentation](<https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/pushing/>) for use-cases.

###  StatsD #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.statsd.StatsDReporter) #

Type: push/identifier

Parameters:

  * `host` \- the StatsD server host
  * `port` \- the StatsD server port

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.stsd.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.statsd.StatsDReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.stsd.host: localhost
    metrics.reporter.stsd.port: 8125
    metrics.reporter.stsd.interval: 60 SECONDS


###  Datadog #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.datadog.DatadogHttpReporter) #

Type: push/tags

Note any variables in Flink metrics, such as `<host>`, `<job_name>`, `<tm_id>`, `<subtask_index>`, `<task_name>`, and `<operator_name>`, will be sent to Datadog as tags. Tags will look like `host:localhost` and `job_name:myjobname`.

Note For legacy reasons the reporter uses _both_ the metric identifier _and_ tags. This redundancy can be avoided by enabling `useLogicalIdentifier`.

Note Histograms are exposed as a series of gauges following the naming convention of Datadog histograms (`<metric_name>.<aggregation>`). The `min` aggregation is reported by default, whereas `sum` is not available. In contrast to Datadog-provided Histograms the reported aggregations are not computed for a specific reporting interval.

Parameters:

  * `apikey` \- the Datadog API key
  * `proxyHost` \- (optional) The proxy host to use when sending to Datadog.
  * `proxyPort` \- (optional) The proxy port to use when sending to Datadog, defaults to 8080.
  * `dataCenter` \- (optional) The data center (`EU`/`US`) to connect to, defaults to `US`.
  * `maxMetricsPerRequest` \- (optional) The maximum number of metrics to include in each request, defaults to 2000.
  * `useLogicalIdentifier` -> (optional) Whether the reporter uses a logical metric identifier, defaults to `false`.

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.dghttp.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.datadog.DatadogHttpReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.apikey: xxx
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.proxyHost: my.web.proxy.com
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.proxyPort: 8080
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.dataCenter: US
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.maxMetricsPerRequest: 2000
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.interval: 60 SECONDS
    metrics.reporter.dghttp.useLogicalIdentifier: true


###  Slf4j #

####  (org.apache.flink.metrics.slf4j.Slf4jReporter) #

Type: push/identifier

Example configuration:


    metrics.reporter.slf4j.factory.class: org.apache.flink.metrics.slf4j.Slf4jReporterFactory
    metrics.reporter.slf4j.interval: 60 SECONDS


__Back to top