**Scala API Extensions**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/datastream/scala_api_extensions/>).

> All Flink Scala APIs are deprecated and will be removed in a future Flink version. You can still build your application in Scala, but you should move to the Java version of either the DataStream and/or Table API.
>
> See [FLIP-265 Deprecate and remove Scala API support](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-265+Deprecate+and+remove+Scala+API+support>)

#  Scala API Extensions #

In order to keep a fair amount of consistency between the Scala and Java APIs, some of the features that allow a high-level of expressiveness in Scala have been left out from the standard APIs for both batch and streaming.

If you want to _enjoy the full Scala experience_ you can choose to opt-in to extensions that enhance the Scala API via implicit conversions.

To use all the available extensions, you can just add a simple `import` for the DataStream API


    import org.apache.flink.streaming.api.scala.extensions._

Alternatively, you can import individual extensions _a-là-carte_ to only use those you prefer.

##  Accept partial functions #

Normally, the DataStream API does not accept anonymous pattern matching functions to deconstruct tuples, case classes or collections, like the following:


    val data: DataStream[(Int, String, Double)] = // [...]
    data.map {
      case (id, name, temperature) => // [...]
      // The previous line causes the following compilation error:
      // "The argument types of an anonymous function must be fully known. (SLS 8.5)"
    }

This extension introduces new methods in the DataStream Scala API that have a one-to-one correspondence in the extended API. These delegating methods do support anonymous pattern matching functions.

####  DataStream API #

Method | Original | Example
---|---|---
**mapWith** | **map (DataStream)** |


    data.mapWith {
      case (_, value) => value.toString
    }

**flatMapWith** | **flatMap (DataStream)** |


    data.flatMapWith {
      case (_, name, visits) => visits.map(name -> _)
    }

**filterWith** | **filter (DataStream)** |


    data.filterWith {
      case Train(_, isOnTime) => isOnTime
    }

**keyingBy** | **keyBy (DataStream)** |


    data.keyingBy {
      case (id, _, _) => id
    }

**mapWith** | **map (ConnectedDataStream)** |


    data.mapWith(
      map1 = case (_, value) => value.toString,
      map2 = case (_, _, value, _) => value + 1
    )

**flatMapWith** | **flatMap (ConnectedDataStream)** |


    data.flatMapWith(
      flatMap1 = case (_, json) => parse(json),
      flatMap2 = case (_, _, json, _) => parse(json)
    )

**keyingBy** | **keyBy (ConnectedDataStream)** |


    data.keyingBy(
      key1 = case (_, timestamp) => timestamp,
      key2 = case (id, _, _) => id
    )

**reduceWith** | **reduce (KeyedStream, WindowedStream)** |


    data.reduceWith {
      case ((_, sum1), (_, sum2) => sum1 + sum2
    }

**projecting** | **apply (JoinedStream)** |


    data1.join(data2).
      whereClause(case (pk, _) => pk).
      isEqualTo(case (_, fk) => fk).
      projecting {
        case ((pk, tx), (products, fk)) => tx -> products
      }

For more information on the semantics of each method, please refer to the [DataStream](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/overview/>) API documentation.

To use this extension exclusively, you can add the following `import`:


    import org.apache.flink.api.scala.extensions.acceptPartialFunctions

for the DataSet extensions and


    import org.apache.flink.streaming.api.scala.extensions.acceptPartialFunctions

The following snippet shows a minimal example of how to use these extension methods together (with the DataSet API):


    object Main {
      import org.apache.flink.streaming.api.scala.extensions._

      case class Point(x: Double, y: Double)

      def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = {
        val env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment
        val ds = env.fromElements(Point(1, 2), Point(3, 4), Point(5, 6))

        ds.filterWith {
          case Point(x, _) => x > 1
        }.reduceWith {
          case (Point(x1, y1), (Point(x2, y2))) => Point(x1 + y1, x2 + y2)
        }.mapWith {
          case Point(x, y) => (x, y)
        }.flatMapWith {
          case (x, y) => Seq("x" -> x, "y" -> y)
        }.keyingBy {
          case (id, value) => id
        }
      }
    }

__Back to top