**JAR Statements**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/table/sql/jar/>).

#  JAR Statements #

JAR statements are used to add user jars into the classpath or remove user jars from the classpath or show added jars in the classpath in the runtime.

Flink SQL supports the following JAR statements for now:

  * ADD JAR
  * SHOW JARS
  * REMOVE JAR

##  Run a JAR statement #

SQL CLI

The following examples show how to run `JAR` statements in [SQL CLI](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/table/sqlclient/>).

SQL CLI


    Flink SQL> ADD JAR '/path/hello.jar';
    [INFO] Execute statement succeed.

    Flink SQL> ADD JAR 'hdfs:///udf/common-udf.jar';
    [INFO] Execute statement succeed.

    Flink SQL> SHOW JARS;
    +----------------------------+
    |                       jars |
    +----------------------------+
    |            /path/hello.jar |
    | hdfs:///udf/common-udf.jar |
    +----------------------------+

    Flink SQL> REMOVE JAR '/path/hello.jar';
    [INFO] The specified jar is removed from session classloader.


##  ADD JAR #


    ADD JAR '<path_to_filename>.jar'


Add a JAR file to the list of resources, it supports adding the jar locates in a local or remote [file system](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/deployment/filesystems/overview/>). The added JAR file can be listed using `SHOW JARS` statements.

###  Limitation #

Please don’t use `ADD JAR` statement to load Hive source/sink/function/catalog. This is a known limitation of Hive connector and will be fixed in the future version. Currently, it’s recommended to follow this [instruction](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/connectors/table/hive/overview/#dependencies>) to setup Hive integration.

##  SHOW JARS #


    SHOW JARS


Show all added jars which are added by `ADD JAR` statements.

##  REMOVE JAR #


    REMOVE JAR '<path_to_filename>.jar'


Remove the specified jar that is added by the `ADD JAR` statements.

Attention REMOVE JAR statement only work in the [SQL CLI](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.16/docs/dev/table/sqlclient/>).

__Back to top