Package [org.apache.flink.api.connector.source](<package-summary.html>)

# Interface SplitEnumerator<SplitT extends [SourceSplit](<SourceSplit.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source"),CheckpointT>

All Superinterfaces:
    `[AutoCloseable](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/AutoCloseable.html> "class or interface in java.lang")`, `[CheckpointListener](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.common.state")`

All Known Implementing Classes:
    `[ContinuousFileSplitEnumerator](<../../../connector/file/src/impl/ContinuousFileSplitEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.connector.file.src.impl")`, `[DynamicFileSplitEnumerator](<../../../connector/file/src/impl/DynamicFileSplitEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.connector.file.src.impl")`, `[HybridSourceSplitEnumerator](<../../../connector/base/source/hybrid/HybridSourceSplitEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.connector.base.source.hybrid")`, `[IteratorSourceEnumerator](<lib/util/IteratorSourceEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.lib.util")`, `[NoOpEnumerator](<../../../connector/testframe/source/enumerator/NoOpEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.connector.testframe.source.enumerator")`, `[SingleSplitEnumerator](<../../../test/util/source/SingleSplitEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.test.util.source")`, `[StaticFileSplitEnumerator](<../../../connector/file/src/impl/StaticFileSplitEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.connector.file.src.impl")`, `[TestSplitEnumerator](<../../../test/util/source/TestSplitEnumerator.html> "class in org.apache.flink.test.util.source")`

* * *

[@Public](<../../../annotation/Public.html> "annotation interface in org.apache.flink.annotation") public interface SplitEnumerator<SplitT extends [SourceSplit](<SourceSplit.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source"),CheckpointT> extends [AutoCloseable](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/AutoCloseable.html> "class or interface in java.lang"), [CheckpointListener](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.common.state")

The interface for a split enumerator responsible for discovering the source splits, and assigning them to the [`SourceReader`](<SourceReader.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source").

  * ## Method Summary

Modifier and Type

Method

Description

`void`

`addReader(int subtaskId)`

Add a new source reader with the given subtask ID.

`void`

`addSplitsBack([List](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/util/List.html> "class or interface in java.util")<[SplitT](<SplitEnumerator.html> "type parameter in SplitEnumerator")> splits, int subtaskId)`

Add splits back to the split enumerator.

`void`

`close()`

Called to close the enumerator, in case it holds on to any resources, like threads or network connections.

`default void`

`handleSourceEvent(int subtaskId, [SourceEvent](<SourceEvent.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source") sourceEvent)`

Handles a custom source event from the source reader.

`void`

`handleSplitRequest(int subtaskId, [String](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/String.html> "class or interface in java.lang") requesterHostname)`

Handles the request for a split.

`default void`

`notifyCheckpointComplete(long checkpointId)`

We have an empty default implementation here because most source readers do not have to implement the method.

`[CheckpointT](<SplitEnumerator.html> "type parameter in SplitEnumerator")`

`snapshotState(long checkpointId)`

Creates a snapshot of the state of this split enumerator, to be stored in a checkpoint.

`void`

`start()`

Start the split enumerator.

### Methods inherited from interface org.apache.flink.api.common.state.[CheckpointListener](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.common.state")

`[notifyCheckpointAborted](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html#notifyCheckpointAborted\(long\)>)`

  * ## Method Details

    * ### start

void start()

Start the split enumerator.

The default behavior does nothing.

    * ### handleSplitRequest

void handleSplitRequest(int subtaskId, @Nullable [String](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/String.html> "class or interface in java.lang") requesterHostname)

Handles the request for a split. This method is called when the reader with the given subtask id calls the [`SourceReaderContext.sendSplitRequest()`](<SourceReaderContext.html#sendSplitRequest\(\)>) method.

Parameters:
    `subtaskId` \- the subtask id of the source reader who sent the source event.
    `requesterHostname` \- Optional, the hostname where the requesting task is running. This can be used to make split assignments locality-aware.
    * ### addSplitsBack

void addSplitsBack([List](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/util/List.html> "class or interface in java.util")<[SplitT](<SplitEnumerator.html> "type parameter in SplitEnumerator")> splits, int subtaskId)

Add splits back to the split enumerator. This will only happen when a [`SourceReader`](<SourceReader.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source") fails and there are splits assigned to it after the last successful checkpoint.

Parameters:
    `splits` \- The splits to add back to the enumerator for reassignment.
    `subtaskId` \- The id of the subtask to which the returned splits belong.
    * ### addReader

void addReader(int subtaskId)

Add a new source reader with the given subtask ID.

Parameters:
    `subtaskId` \- the subtask ID of the new source reader.
    * ### snapshotState

[CheckpointT](<SplitEnumerator.html> "type parameter in SplitEnumerator") snapshotState(long checkpointId) throws [Exception](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Exception.html> "class or interface in java.lang")

Creates a snapshot of the state of this split enumerator, to be stored in a checkpoint.

The snapshot should contain the latest state of the enumerator: It should assume that all operations that happened before the snapshot have successfully completed. For example all splits assigned to readers via [`SplitEnumeratorContext.assignSplit(SourceSplit, int)`](<SplitEnumeratorContext.html#assignSplit\(SplitT,int\)>) and [`SplitEnumeratorContext.assignSplits(SplitsAssignment)`](<SplitEnumeratorContext.html#assignSplits\(org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.SplitsAssignment\)>)) don't need to be included in the snapshot anymore.

This method takes the ID of the checkpoint for which the state is snapshotted. Most implementations should be able to ignore this parameter, because for the contents of the snapshot, it doesn't matter for which checkpoint it gets created. This parameter can be interesting for source connectors with external systems where those systems are themselves aware of checkpoints; for example in cases where the enumerator notifies that system about a specific checkpoint being triggered.

Parameters:
    `checkpointId` \- The ID of the checkpoint for which the snapshot is created.
Returns:
    an object containing the state of the split enumerator.
Throws:
    `[Exception](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Exception.html> "class or interface in java.lang")` \- when the snapshot cannot be taken.
    * ### close

void close() throws [IOException](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/io/IOException.html> "class or interface in java.io")

Called to close the enumerator, in case it holds on to any resources, like threads or network connections.

Specified by:
    `[close](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/AutoCloseable.html#close\(\)> "class or interface in java.lang")` in interface `[AutoCloseable](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/AutoCloseable.html> "class or interface in java.lang")`
Throws:
    `[IOException](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/io/IOException.html> "class or interface in java.io")`
    * ### notifyCheckpointComplete

default void notifyCheckpointComplete(long checkpointId) throws [Exception](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Exception.html> "class or interface in java.lang")

We have an empty default implementation here because most source readers do not have to implement the method.

Specified by:
    `[notifyCheckpointComplete](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html#notifyCheckpointComplete\(long\)>)` in interface `[CheckpointListener](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.common.state")`
Parameters:
    `checkpointId` \- The ID of the checkpoint that has been completed.
Throws:
    `[Exception](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Exception.html> "class or interface in java.lang")` \- This method can propagate exceptions, which leads to a failure/recovery for the task. Note that this will NOT lead to the checkpoint being revoked.
See Also:

      * [`CheckpointListener.notifyCheckpointComplete(long)`](<../../common/state/CheckpointListener.html#notifyCheckpointComplete\(long\)>)
    * ### handleSourceEvent

default void handleSourceEvent(int subtaskId, [SourceEvent](<SourceEvent.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source") sourceEvent)

Handles a custom source event from the source reader.

This method has a default implementation that does nothing, because it is only required to be implemented by some sources, which have a custom event protocol between reader and enumerator. The common events for reader registration and split requests are not dispatched to this method, but rather invoke the `addReader(int)` and `handleSplitRequest(int, String)` methods.

Parameters:
    `subtaskId` \- the subtask id of the source reader who sent the source event.
    `sourceEvent` \- the source event from the source reader.