This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use [the latest stable version](<https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/>).

**Important** : Maven artifacts which depend on Scala are now suffixed with the Scala major version, e.g. "2.10" or "2.11". Please consult the [migration guide on the project Wiki](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/Maven+artifact+names+suffixed+with+Scala+version>).

# Overview

**This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use[the latest stable version](<https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/index.html>).**

This documentation is for Apache Flink version 1.0.3.

Apache Flink is an open source platform for distributed stream and batch data processing. Flink’s core is a streaming dataflow engine that provides data distribution, communication, and fault tolerance for distributed computations over data streams. Flink also builds batch processing on top of the streaming engine, overlaying native iteration support, managed memory, and program optimization.

## First Steps

  * **Concepts** : Start with the [basic concepts](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.0/concepts/concepts.html>) of Flink. This will help you to fully understand the other parts of the documentation, including the setup and programming guides. It is highly recommended to read this first.

  * **Quickstarts** : [Run an example program](<quickstart/setup_quickstart.html>) on your local machine or [write a simple program](<quickstart/run_example_quickstart.html>) working on live Wikipedia edits.

  * **Setup:** The [local](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.0/setup/local_setup.html>), [cluster](<setup/cluster_setup.html>), and [cloud](<setup/gce_setup.html>) setup guides show you how to deploy Flink.

  * **Programming Guides** : You can check out our guides about [basic concepts](<apis/common/index.html>) and the [DataStream API](<apis/streaming/index.html>) or [DataSet API](<apis/batch/index.html>) to learn how to write your first Flink programs.

  * **Migration Guide** : Check out the [0.10 to 1.0 migration guide](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/Migration+Guide%3A+0.10.x+to+1.0.x>) if you are upgrading from Flink 0.10.x.

## Stack

This is an overview of Flink’s stack. Click on any component to go to the respective documentation page.