**User-Defined Functions**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/datastream/user_defined_functions/>).

#  User-Defined Functions #

Most operations require a user-defined function. This section lists different ways of how they can be specified. We also cover `Accumulators`, which can be used to gain insights into your Flink application.

Java

##  Implementing an interface #

The most basic way is to implement one of the provided interfaces:


    class MyMapFunction implements MapFunction<String, Integer> {
      public Integer map(String value) { return Integer.parseInt(value); }
    }
    data.map(new MyMapFunction());


##  Anonymous classes #

You can pass a function as an anonymous class:


    data.map(new MapFunction<String, Integer> () {
      public Integer map(String value) { return Integer.parseInt(value); }
    });


##  Java 8 Lambdas #

Flink also supports Java 8 Lambdas in the Java API.


    data.filter(s -> s.startsWith("http://"));



    data.reduce((i1,i2) -> i1 + i2);


##  Rich functions #

All transformations that require a user-defined function can instead take as argument a _rich_ function. For example, instead of


    class MyMapFunction implements MapFunction<String, Integer> {
      public Integer map(String value) { return Integer.parseInt(value); }
    }


you can write


    class MyMapFunction extends RichMapFunction<String, Integer> {
      public Integer map(String value) { return Integer.parseInt(value); }
    }


and pass the function as usual to a `map` transformation:


    data.map(new MyMapFunction());


Rich functions can also be defined as an anonymous class:


    data.map (new RichMapFunction<String, Integer>() {
      public Integer map(String value) { return Integer.parseInt(value); }
    });


Scala

##  Lambda Functions #

As already seen in previous examples all operations accept lambda functions for describing the operation:


    val data: DataStream[String] = // [...]
    data.filter { _.startsWith("http://") }



    val data: DataStream[Int] = // [...]
    data.reduce { (i1,i2) => i1 + i2 }
    // or
    data.reduce { _ + _ }


##  Rich functions #

All transformations that take as argument a lambda function can instead take as argument a _rich_ function. For example, instead of


    data.map { x => x.toInt }


you can write


    class MyMapFunction extends RichMapFunction[String, Int] {
      def map(in: String): Int = in.toInt
    }


and pass the function to a `map` transformation:


    data.map(new MyMapFunction())


Rich functions can also be defined as an anonymous class:


    data.map (new RichMapFunction[String, Int] {
      def map(in: String): Int = in.toInt
    })


__Back to top

##  Accumulators & Counters #

Accumulators are simple constructs with an **add operation** and a **final accumulated result** , which is available after the job ended.

The most straightforward accumulator is a **counter** : You can increment it using the `Accumulator.add(V value)` method. At the end of the job Flink will sum up (merge) all partial results and send the result to the client. Accumulators are useful during debugging or if you quickly want to find out more about your data.

Flink currently has the following **built-in accumulators**. Each of them implements the [ Accumulator ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/Accumulator.java>) interface.

  * [ **IntCounter** ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/IntCounter.java>) , [ **LongCounter** ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/LongCounter.java>) and [ **DoubleCounter** ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/DoubleCounter.java>) : See below for an example using a counter.
  * [ **Histogram** ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/Histogram.java>) : A histogram implementation for a discrete number of bins. Internally it is just a map from Integer to Integer. You can use this to compute distributions of values, e.g. the distribution of words-per-line for a word count program.

**How to use accumulators:**

First you have to create an accumulator object (here a counter) in the user-defined transformation function where you want to use it.


    private IntCounter numLines = new IntCounter();


Second you have to register the accumulator object, typically in the `open()` method of the _rich_ function. Here you also define the name.


    getRuntimeContext().addAccumulator("num-lines", this.numLines);


You can now use the accumulator anywhere in the operator function, including in the `open()` and `close()` methods.


    this.numLines.add(1);


The overall result will be stored in the `JobExecutionResult` object which is returned from the `execute()` method of the execution environment (currently this only works if the execution waits for the completion of the job).


    myJobExecutionResult.getAccumulatorResult("num-lines");


All accumulators share a single namespace per job. Thus you can use the same accumulator in different operator functions of your job. Flink will internally merge all accumulators with the same name.

A note on accumulators and iterations: Currently the result of accumulators is only available after the overall job has ended. We plan to also make the result of the previous iteration available in the next iteration. You can use [ Aggregators ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-java/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/java/operators/IterativeDataSet.java#L98>) to compute per-iteration statistics and base the termination of iterations on such statistics.

**Custom accumulators:**

To implement your own accumulator you simply have to write your implementation of the Accumulator interface. Feel free to create a pull request if you think your custom accumulator should be shipped with Flink.

You have the choice to implement either [ Accumulator ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/Accumulator.java>) or [ SimpleAccumulator ](<//github.com/apache/flink/blob/release-1.19//flink-core/src/main/java/org/apache/flink/api/common/accumulators/SimpleAccumulator.java>) .

`Accumulator<V,R>` is most flexible: It defines a type `V` for the value to add, and a result type `R` for the final result. E.g. for a histogram, `V` is a number and `R` is a histogram. `SimpleAccumulator` is for the cases where both types are the same, e.g. for counters.

__Back to top