**MySQL to StarRocks**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  Streaming ELT from MySQL to StarRocks #

This tutorial is to show how to quickly build a Streaming ELT job from MySQL to StarRocks using Flink CDC, including the feature of sync all table of one database, schema change evolution and sync sharding tables into one table.
All exercises in this tutorial are performed in the Flink CDC CLI, and the entire process uses standard SQL syntax, without a single line of Java/Scala code or IDE installation.

##  Preparation #

Prepare a Linux or MacOS computer with Docker installed.

###  Prepare Flink Standalone cluster #

  1. Download [Flink 2.2.0](<https://archive.apache.org/dist/flink/flink-2.2.0/flink-2.2.0-bin-scala_2.12.tgz>) ，unzip and get flink-2.2.0 directory. Use the following command to navigate to the Flink directory and set FLINK_HOME to the directory where flink-2.2.0 is located.

         cd flink-2.2.0


  2. Enable checkpointing by appending the following parameters to the conf/config.yaml configuration file to perform a checkpoint every 3 seconds.

         execution:
           checkpointing:
             interval: 3s


  3. Start the Flink cluster using the following command.

         ./bin/start-cluster.sh


If successfully started, you can access the Flink Web UI at <http://localhost:8081/>, as shown below.

Executing `start-cluster.sh` multiple times can start multiple `TaskManager`s.

###  Prepare docker compose #

The following tutorial will prepare the required components using `docker-compose`. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file using the content provided below:


    version: '2.1'
    services:
       StarRocks:
          image: starrocks/allin1-ubuntu:3.5.10
          ports:
             - "8080:8080"
             - "9030:9030"
       MySQL:
          image: debezium/example-mysql:1.1
          ports:
             - "3306:3306"
          environment:
             - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=123456
             - MYSQL_USER=mysqluser
             - MYSQL_PASSWORD=mysqlpw


The Docker Compose should include the following services (containers):

  * MySQL: include a database named `app_db`
  * StarRocks: to store tables from MySQL

To start all containers, run the following command in the directory that contains the `docker-compose.yml` file.


    docker-compose up -d


This command automatically starts all the containers defined in the Docker Compose configuration in a detached mode. Run docker ps to check whether these containers are running properly. You can also visit <http://localhost:8030/> to check whether StarRocks is running.

####  Prepare records for MySQL #

  1. Enter MySQL container

         docker-compose exec MySQL mysql -uroot -p123456


  2. create `app_db` database and `orders`,`products`,`shipments` tables, then insert records

         -- create database
         CREATE DATABASE app_db;

         USE app_db;

         -- create orders table
         CREATE TABLE `orders` (
         `id` INT NOT NULL,
         `price` DECIMAL(10,2) NOT NULL,
         PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
         );

         -- insert records
         INSERT INTO `orders` (`id`, `price`) VALUES (1, 4.00);
         INSERT INTO `orders` (`id`, `price`) VALUES (2, 100.00);

         -- create shipments table
         CREATE TABLE `shipments` (
         `id` INT NOT NULL,
         `city` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
         PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
         );

         -- insert records
         INSERT INTO `shipments` (`id`, `city`) VALUES (1, 'beijing');
         INSERT INTO `shipments` (`id`, `city`) VALUES (2, 'xian');

         -- create products table
         CREATE TABLE `products` (
         `id` INT NOT NULL,
         `product` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
         PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
         );

         -- insert records
         INSERT INTO `products` (`id`, `product`) VALUES (1, 'Beer');
         INSERT INTO `products` (`id`, `product`) VALUES (2, 'Cap');
         INSERT INTO `products` (`id`, `product`) VALUES (3, 'Peanut');


##  Submit job with Flink CDC CLI #

  1. Download the binary compressed packages listed below and extract them to the directory `flink-cdc-3.7-SNAPSHOT`： [flink-cdc-3.7-SNAPSHOT-bin.tar.gz](<https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/flink/flink-cdc-3.7-SNAPSHOT/flink-cdc-3.7-SNAPSHOT-bin.tar.gz>) `flink-cdc-3.7-SNAPSHOT` directory will contain four directories: `bin`, `lib`, `log`, and `conf`.

  2. Download the connector package listed below and move it to the `lib` directory **Download links are available only for stable releases, SNAPSHOT dependencies need to be built based on master or release branches by yourself.** **Please note that you need to move the jar to the lib directory of Flink CDC Home, not to the lib directory of Flink Home.**

     * [flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-mysql](<https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.flink/flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-mysql>)
     * [flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-starrocks](<https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.flink/flink-cdc-pipeline-connector-starrocks>)

You also need to place MySQL connector into Flink `lib` folder or pass it with `--jar` argument, since they’re no longer packaged with CDC connectors:

     * [MySQL Connector Java](<https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/8.0.27/mysql-connector-java-8.0.27.jar>)
  3. Write task configuration yaml file. Here is an example file for synchronizing the entire database `mysql-to-starrocks.yaml`：

         ################################################################################
         # Description: Sync MySQL all tables to StarRocks
         ################################################################################
         source:
           type: mysql
           hostname: localhost
           port: 3306
           username: root
           password: 123456
           tables: app_db.\.*
           server-id: 5400-5404
           server-time-zone: UTC

         sink:
           type: starrocks
           name: StarRocks Sink
           jdbc-url: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:9030
           load-url: 127.0.0.1:8080
           username: root
           password: ""
           table.create.properties.replication_num: 1

         pipeline:
           name: Sync MySQL Database to StarRocks
           parallelism: 2


Notice that:

  * `tables: app_db.\.*` in source synchronize all tables in `app_db` through Regular Matching.
  * `table.create.properties.replication_num` in sink is because there is only one StarRocks BE node in the Docker image.

  4. Finally, submit job to Flink Standalone cluster using Cli.

         bash bin/flink-cdc.sh mysql-to-starrocks.yaml


After successful submission, the return information is as follows：


    Pipeline has been submitted to cluster.
    Job ID: 02a31c92f0e7bc9a1f4c0051980088a0
    Job Description: Sync MySQL Database to StarRocks


We can find a job named `Sync MySQL Database to StarRocks` is running through Flink Web UI.

Connect to jdbc through database connection tools such as Dbeaver using `mysql://127.0.0.1:9030`. You can view the data written to three tables in StarRocks.

###  Synchronize Schema and Data changes #

Enter MySQL container


    docker-compose exec mysql mysql -uroot -p123456


Then, modify schema and record in MySQL, and the tables of StarRocks will change the same in real time：

  1. insert one record in `orders` from MySQL:

         INSERT INTO app_db.orders (id, price) VALUES (3, 100.00);


  2. add one column in `orders` from MySQL:

         ALTER TABLE app_db.orders ADD amount varchar(100) NULL;


  3. update one record in `orders` from MySQL:

         UPDATE app_db.orders SET price=100.00, amount=100.00 WHERE id=1;


  4. delete one record in `orders` from MySQL:

         DELETE FROM app_db.orders WHERE id=2;


Refresh the Dbeaver every time you execute a step, and you can see that the `orders` table displayed in StarRocks will be updated in real-time, like the following：

Similarly, by modifying the `shipments` and `products` tables, you can also see the results of synchronized changes in real-time in StarRocks.

###  Route the changes #

Flink CDC provides the configuration to route the table structure/data of the source table to other table names.
With this ability, we can achieve functions such as table name, database name replacement, and whole database synchronization. Here is an example file for using `route` feature:


    ################################################################################
    # Description: Sync MySQL all tables to StarRocks
    ################################################################################
    source:
       type: mysql
       hostname: localhost
       port: 3306
       username: root
       password: 123456
       tables: app_db.\.*
       server-id: 5400-5404
       server-time-zone: UTC

    sink:
       type: starrocks
       jdbc-url: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:9030
       load-url: 127.0.0.1:8030
       username: root
       password: ""
       table.create.properties.replication_num: 1

    route:
       - source-table: app_db.orders
         sink-table: ods_db.ods_orders
       - source-table: app_db.shipments
         sink-table: ods_db.ods_shipments
       - source-table: app_db.products
         sink-table: ods_db.ods_products

    pipeline:
       name: Sync MySQL Database to StarRocks
       parallelism: 2


Using the upper `route` configuration, we can synchronize the table schema and data of `app_db.orders` to `ods_db.ods_orders`, thus achieving the function of database migration.
Specifically, `source-table` support regular expression matching with multiple tables to synchronize sharding databases and tables. like the following：


    route:
      - source-table: app_db.order\.*
        sink-table: ods_db.ods_orders


In this way, we can synchronize sharding tables like `app_db.order01`、`app_db.order02`、`app_db.order03` into one ods_db.ods_orders tables.
Warning that there is currently no support for scenarios where the same primary key data exists in multiple tables, which will be supported in future versions.

##  Clean up #

After finishing the tutorial, run the following command to stop all containers in the directory of `docker-compose.yml`:


    docker-compose down


Run the following command to stop the Flink cluster in the directory of Flink `flink-2.2.0`:


    ./bin/stop-cluster.sh


__Back to top