**Over Aggregation**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/over-agg/>).

#  Over Aggregation #

Batch Streaming

`OVER` aggregates compute an aggregated value for every input row over a range of ordered rows. In contrast to `GROUP BY` aggregates, `OVER` aggregates do not reduce the number of result rows to a single row for every group. Instead `OVER` aggregates produce an aggregated value for every input row.

The following query computes for every order the sum of amounts of all orders for the same product that were received within one hour before the current order.


    SELECT order_id, order_time, amount,
      SUM(amount) OVER (
        PARTITION BY product
        ORDER BY order_time
        RANGE BETWEEN INTERVAL '1' HOUR PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW
      ) AS one_hour_prod_amount_sum
    FROM Orders


The syntax for an `OVER` window is summarized below.


    SELECT
      agg_func(agg_col) OVER (
        [PARTITION BY col1[, col2, ...]]
        ORDER BY time_col|non_time_col
        range_definition|row_definition),
      ...
    FROM ...


You can define multiple `OVER` window aggregates in a `SELECT` clause. However, for streaming queries, the `OVER` windows for all aggregates must be identical due to current limitation.

###  ORDER BY #

`OVER` windows are defined on an ordered sequence of rows. Since tables do not have an inherent order, the `ORDER BY` clause is mandatory. For streaming queries, Flink currently supports `OVER` windows that are defined with an ascending [time attribute](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.1/docs/dev/table/concepts/time_attributes/>) or ascending non-time attribute. Additional orderings are not supported.

###  PARTITION BY #

`OVER` windows can be defined on a partitioned table. In presence of a `PARTITION BY` clause, the aggregate is computed for each input row only over the rows of its partition.

###  Range Definitions #

The range definition specifies how many rows are included in the aggregate. The range is defined with a `BETWEEN` clause that defines a lower and an upper boundary. All rows between these boundaries are included in the aggregate. Flink only supports `CURRENT ROW` as the upper boundary.

There are two options to define the range, `ROWS` intervals and `RANGE` intervals.

####  RANGE intervals #

A `RANGE` interval is defined on the values of the ORDER BY column, which (in case of Flink) is either a time or non-time attribute.

The following RANGE interval defines that all rows with a time attribute of at most 30 minutes less than the current row are included in the aggregate.


    RANGE BETWEEN INTERVAL '30' MINUTE PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW


The following RANGE interval defines that all rows with a non-time attribute of unbounded rows preceding the current row are included in the aggregate.


    RANGE BETWEEN UNBOUNDED PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW


####  ROW intervals #

A `ROWS` interval is a count-based interval. It defines exactly how many rows are included in the aggregate. The following `ROWS` interval defines that the 10 rows preceding the current row and the current row (so 11 rows in total) are included in the aggregate.


    ROWS BETWEEN 10 PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW
    WINDOW


The `WINDOW` clause can be used to define an `OVER` window outside of the `SELECT` clause. It can make queries more readable and also allows us to reuse the window definition for multiple aggregates.


    SELECT order_id, order_time, amount,
      SUM(amount) OVER w AS sum_amount,
      AVG(amount) OVER w AS avg_amount
    FROM Orders
    WINDOW w AS (
      PARTITION BY product
      ORDER BY order_time
      RANGE BETWEEN INTERVAL '1' HOUR PRECEDING AND CURRENT ROW)


__Back to top