**Doris**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  Doris Connector #

This article introduces of Doris Connector

##  Example #


    source:
       type: values
       name: ValuesSource

    sink:
       type: doris
       name: Doris Sink
       fenodes: 127.0.0.1:8030
       username: root
       password: ""
       table.create.properties.replication_num: 1

    pipeline:
       parallelism: 1


##  Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---
type | required | (none) | String | Specify the Sink to use, here is `'doris'`.
name | optional | (none) | String |  Name of PipeLine
fenodes | required | (none) | String | Http address of Doris cluster FE, such as 127.0.0.1:8030
benodes | optional | (none) | String | Http address of Doris cluster BE, such as 127.0.0.1:8040
jdbc-url | optional | (none) | String | JDBC address of Doris cluster, for example: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:9030/db
username | required | (none) | String | Username of Doris cluster
password | optional | (none) | String | Password for Doris cluster
auto-redirect | optional | false | String |  Whether to write through FE redirection and directly connect to BE to write
charset-encoding | optional | false | Boolean |  Charset encoding for doris http client, default UTF-8
sink.enable.batch-mode | optional | true | Boolean |  Whether to use the batch method to write to Doris
sink.enable-delete | optional | true | Boolean | Whether to enable the delete function
sink.max-retries | optional | 3 | Integer | The max retry times if writing records to database failed.
sink.flush.queue-size | optional | 2 | Integer |  Queue size for batch writing
sink.buffer-flush.max-rows | optional | 50000 | Integer | Maximum number of Flush records in a single batch
sink.buffer-flush.max-bytes | optional | 10485760(10MB) | Integer | Maximum number of bytes flushed in a single batch
sink.buffer-flush.interval | optional | 10s | String | Flush interval duration. If this time is exceeded, the data will be flushed asynchronously
sink.ignore.update-before | optional | true | Boolean | In the CDC scenario, when the primary key of the upstream is inconsistent with that of the downstream, the update-before data needs to be passed to the downstream as deleted data, otherwise the data cannot be deleted.\n" \+ "The default is to ignore, that is, perform upsert semantics.
sink.properties. | optional | (none) | String |  Parameters of StreamLoad. For example: ` sink.properties.strict_mode: true`. See more about [ StreamLoad Properties](<https://doris.apache.org/docs/dev/data-operate/import/import-way/stream-load-manual>)
table.create.properties.* | optional | (none) | String | Create the Properties configuration of the table. For example: ` table.create.properties.replication_num: 1`. See more about [ Doris Table Properties](<https://doris.apache.org/docs/dev/sql-manual/sql-statements/table-and-view/table/CREATE-TABLE>)
table.create.auto-partition.properties.* | optional | (none) | String | Create the auto partition Properties configuration of the table.
Currently the partition function only supports date_trunc, and the partition column supports only DATE or DATETIME types, and the version of Doris must greater than 2.1.6. See more about [Doris Auto Partitioning](<https://doris.apache.org/docs/table-design/data-partitioning/auto-partitioning>)
These properties are supported now：
` table.create.auto-partition.properties.include`A collection of tables after route to include, separated by commas, supports regular expressions;
` table.create.auto-partition.properties.exclude`A collection of tables after route to exclude, separated by commas, supports regular expressions;
` table.create.auto-partition.properties.default-partition-key`The default partition key;
` table.create.auto-partition.properties.default-partition-unit`The default partition unit;
` table.create.auto-partition.properties.DB.TABLE.partition-key`The partition key of a specific table. If not set, the default partition key is used;
` table.create.auto-partition.properties.DB.TABLE.partition-unit`The partition unit of a specific table. If not set, the default partition unit is used.
Note:
1: If the partition key is not DATE/DATETIME type, auto partition tables won't be created.
2: Doris AUTO RANGE PARTITION does not support NULLABLE columns as partition key, if Flink CDC get a NULL value or a NULLABLE partition key was added after the table was created, will automatically fill it with a default value(DATE:`1970-01-01`, DATETIME:`1970-01-01 00:00:00`), chose a suitable partition key is very important.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Flink CDC Type | Doris Type | Note
---|---|---
TINYINT | TINYINT |
SMALLINT | SMALLINT |
INT | INT |
BIGINT | BIGINT |
DECIMAL | DECIMAL |
FLOAT | FLOAT |
DOUBLE | DOUBLE |
BOOLEAN | BOOLEAN |
DATE | DATE |
TIMESTAMP [(p)] | DATETIME [(p)] |
TIMESTAMP_LTZ [(p)]  | DATETIME [(p)]  |
CHAR(n) | CHAR(n*3) | In Doris, strings are stored in UTF-8 encoding, so English characters occupy 1 byte and Chinese characters occupy 3 bytes. The length here is multiplied by 3. The maximum length of CHAR is 255. Once exceeded, it will automatically be converted to VARCHAR type.
VARCHAR(n) | VARCHAR(n*3) | Same as above. The length here is multiplied by 3. The maximum length of VARCHAR is 65533. Once exceeded, it will automatically be converted to STRING type.
BINARY(n)  | STRING |
VARBINARY(N)  | STRING |
TIME  | STRING | Doris does not support the TIME data type, it needs to be converted to STRING type for compatibility.
STRING | STRING |

__Back to top