**JSON**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/table/formats/json/>).

#  JSON Format #

Format: Serialization Schema Format: Deserialization Schema

The [JSON](<https://www.json.org/json-en.html>) format allows to read and write JSON data based on an JSON schema. Currently, the JSON schema is derived from table schema.

The JSON format supports append-only streams, unless you’re using a connector that explicitly support retract streams and/or upsert streams like the [Upsert Kafka](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/connectors/table/upsert-kafka/>) connector. If you need to write retract streams and/or upsert streams, we suggest you to look at CDC JSON formats like [Debezium JSON](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/connectors/table/formats/debezium/>) and [Canal JSON](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/connectors/table/formats/canal/>).

##  Dependencies #

In order to use the Json format the following dependencies are required for both projects using a build automation tool (such as Maven or SBT) and SQL Client with SQL JAR bundles.

Maven dependency | SQL Client |


    &ltdependency&gt
      &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
      &ltartifactId&gtflink-json&lt/artifactId&gt
      &ltversion&gt2.4-SNAPSHOT&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!  | Built-in
---|---

##  How to create a table with JSON format #

Here is an example to create a table using Kafka connector and JSON format.


    CREATE TABLE user_behavior (
      user_id BIGINT,
      item_id BIGINT,
      category_id BIGINT,
      behavior STRING,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3)
    ) WITH (
     'connector' = 'kafka',
     'topic' = 'user_behavior',
     'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'localhost:9092',
     'properties.group.id' = 'testGroup',
     'format' = 'json',
     'json.fail-on-missing-field' = 'false',
     'json.ignore-parse-errors' = 'true'
    )


##  Format Options #

Option | Required | Forwarded | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---|---

##### format

| required | no | (none) | String | Specify what format to use, here should be `'json'`.

##### json.fail-on-missing-field

| optional | no | false | Boolean | Whether to fail if a field is missing or not.

##### json.ignore-parse-errors

| optional | no | false | Boolean | Skip fields and rows with parse errors instead of failing. Fields are set to null in case of errors.

##### json.timestamp-format.standard

| optional | yes | `'SQL'` | String | Specify the input and output timestamp format for `TIMESTAMP` and `TIMESTAMP_LTZ` type. Currently supported values are `'SQL'` and `'ISO-8601'`:

  * Option `'SQL'` will parse input TIMESTAMP values in "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.s{precision}" format, e.g "2020-12-30 12:13:14.123", parse input TIMESTAMP_LTZ values in "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.s{precision}'Z'" format, e.g "2020-12-30 12:13:14.123Z" and output timestamp in the same format.
  * Option `'ISO-8601'`will parse input TIMESTAMP in "yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.s{precision}" format, e.g "2020-12-30T12:13:14.123" parse input TIMESTAMP_LTZ in "yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ss.s{precision}'Z'" format, e.g "2020-12-30T12:13:14.123Z" and output timestamp in the same format.



##### json.map-null-key.mode

| optional | yes | `'FAIL'` | String | Specify the handling mode when serializing null keys for map data. Currently supported values are `'FAIL'`, `'DROP'` and `'LITERAL'`:

  * Option `'FAIL'` will throw exception when encountering map with null key.
  * Option `'DROP'` will drop null key entries for map data.
  * Option `'LITERAL'` will replace null key with string literal. The string literal is defined by `json.map-null-key.literal` option.



##### json.map-null-key.literal

| optional | yes | 'null' | String | Specify string literal to replace null key when `'json.map-null-key.mode'` is LITERAL.

##### json.encode.decimal-as-plain-number

| optional | yes | false | Boolean | Encode all decimals as plain numbers instead of possible scientific notations. By default, decimals may be written using scientific notation. For example, `0.000000027` is encoded as `2.7E-8` by default, and will be written as `0.000000027` if set this option to true.

##### json.encode.ignore-null-fields

| optional | yes | false | Boolean | Encode only non-null fields. By default, all fields will be included.

##### decode.json-parser.enabled

| optional |  | true | Boolean | Whether to use the Jackson `JsonParser` to decode json. `JsonParser` is the Jackson JSON streaming API to read JSON data. This is much faster and consumes less memory compared to the previous `JsonNode` approach. Meanwhile, `JsonParser` also supports nested projection pushdown when reading data. This option is enabled by default. You can disable and fallback to the previous `JsonNode` approach when encountering any incompatibility issues.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Currently, the JSON schema is always derived from table schema. Explicitly defining an JSON schema is not supported yet.

Flink JSON format uses [jackson databind API](<https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-databind>) to parse and generate JSON string.

The following table lists the type mapping from Flink type to JSON type.

Flink SQL type | JSON type
---|---
`CHAR / VARCHAR / STRING` | `string`
`BOOLEAN` | `boolean`
`BINARY / VARBINARY` | `string with encoding: base64`
`DECIMAL` | `number`
`TINYINT` | `number`
`SMALLINT` | `number`
`INT` | `number`
`BIGINT` | `number`
`FLOAT` | `number`
`DOUBLE` | `number`
`DATE` | `string with format: date`
`TIME` | `string with format: time`
`TIMESTAMP` | `string with format: date-time`
`TIMESTAMP_WITH_LOCAL_TIME_ZONE` | `string with format: date-time (with UTC time zone)`
`INTERVAL` | `number`
`ARRAY` | `array`
`MAP / MULTISET` | `object`
`ROW` | `object`

##  Features #

###  Allow top-level JSON Arrays #

Usually, we assume the top-level of JSON string is a stringified JSON object. Then this stringified JSON object can be converted into one SQL row.

There are some cases that, the top-level of JSON string is a stringified JSON array, and we want to explode the array into multiple records. Each element within the array is a JSON object, the schema of every such JSON object is the same as defined in SQL, and each of these JSON objects can be converted into one row. Flink JSON Format supports reading such data.

For example, for the following SQL DDL:


    CREATE TABLE user_behavior (
      col1 BIGINT,
      col2 VARCHAR
    ) WITH (
     'format' = 'json',
     ...
    )


Flink JSON Format will produce 2 rows `(123, "a")` and `(456, "b")` with both of following two JSON string. The top-level is JSON Array:


    [{"col1": 123, "col2": "a"}, {"col1": 456, "col2": "b"}]


The top-level is JSON Object:


    {"col1": 123, "col2": "a"}
    {"col1": 456, "col2": "b"}