**Joining**

> **Note:** DataStream API V2 is a new set of APIs, to gradually replace the original DataStream API. It is currently in the experimental stage and is not fully available for production.

#  Joining #

Join is used to merge two data streams by matching elements from both streams based on a common key, and performing calculations on the matched elements.

This section will introduce the Join operation in DataStream in detail.

Please note that currently, DataStream supports only non-window INNER joins. Other types of joins, such as interval joins, lookup joins, and window joins, will be supported in the future.

##  Non-Window Join #

To use the Join, users must specify the following:

  1. The left and right streams that will be joined.
  2. The `KeySelector` of two streams, which determines the join key.
  3. The `JoinFunction`: the processing logic applied to the matched data.

We will first introduce the APIs for performing Join, and then introduce the JoinFunction.

###  APIs for performing Join #

There are two approaches to performing a Join operation:

  1. Use `BuiltinFuncs.join` to connect two streams and execute the Join.
  2. Convert the `JoinFunction` into a `ProcessFunction` and utilize `KeyedPartitionStream#connectAndProcess` to execute the Join.

In the first approach, users can choose between two options based on the types of the input data streams.

  * If both input data streams are already Keyed Partition Stream, users can directly combine the two Keyed Partition Stream along with the `JoinFunction` to produce the joined data stream.



    NonKeyedPartitionStream joinedStream = BuiltinFuncs.join(
      keyedStream1,
      keyedStream2,
      new CustomJoinFunction()
    );


  * If both input data streams are Non-Keyed Partition Stream, users need to incorporate the corresponding Join key `KeySelector` and `JoinFunction` to convert the two Non-Keyed Partition Stream into the joined data stream.



    NonKeyedPartitionStream joinedStream = BuiltinFuncs.join(
      stream1,
      new CustomJoinKeySelector1(),
      stream2,
      new CustomJoinKeySelector2(),
      new CustomJoinFunction()
    );


In the second approach, users can convert the `JoinFunction` into a `ProcessFunction`, which can then be processed by the DataStream API. An example of this conversion and how to use the converted `ProcessFunction` is provided below:


    TwoInputNonBroadcastStreamProcessFunction wrappedJoinFunction = BuiltinFuncs.join(new CustomJoinFunction());
    NonKeyedPartitionStream joinedStream = keyedStream1.connectAndProcess(
      keyedstream2,
      wrappedJoinFunction
    );


Please note that in the second approach, it is essential that the two input data streams are Keyed Partition Stream.

###  JoinFunction #

`JoinFunction` is an interface used to describe how to calculate the matched data. It has only one method `processRecord`. Users can get the matched elements in `processRecord` to perform calculations and then output the calculation results.

Below is an example demonstrating how to use a `JoinFunction` to connect student personal information with their exam scores.


    class JoinStudentInformationAndScore
            implements JoinFunction<StudentInfo, ExamScore, EnrichedStudentExamScore> {

        @Override
        public void processRecord(
                StudentInfo studentInfo,
                ExamScore examScore,
                Collector<EnrichedStudentExamScore> output,
                RuntimeContext ctx)
                throws Exception {
            // do some calculation logic and emit joined result
            EnrichedStudentExamScore studentExamScore =
                    new EnrichedStudentExamScore(studentInfo.getId(), studentInfo.getName(), examScore.getScore());
            output.collect(studentExamScore);
        }
    }


__Back to top