**Event Processing (CEP)**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/libs/cep/>).

#  FlinkCEP - Complex event processing for Flink #

FlinkCEP is the Complex Event Processing (CEP) library implemented on top of Flink. It allows you to detect event patterns in an endless stream of events, giving you the opportunity to get hold of what’s important in your data.

This page describes the API calls available in Flink CEP. We start by presenting the Pattern API, which allows you to specify the patterns that you want to detect in your stream, before presenting how you can detect and act upon matching event sequences. We then present the assumptions the CEP library makes when dealing with lateness in event time and how you can migrate your job from an older Flink version to Flink-1.13.

##  Getting Started #

If you want to jump right in, [set up a Flink program](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/configuration/overview/>) and add the FlinkCEP dependency to the `pom.xml` of your project.

Java


    &ltdependency&gt
        &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
        &ltartifactId&gtflink-cep&lt/artifactId&gt
        &ltversion&gt1.19.3&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!

Scala


    &ltdependency&gt
        &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
        &ltartifactId&gtflink-cep-scala_2.12&lt/artifactId&gt
        &ltversion&gt1.19.3&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!

FlinkCEP is not part of the binary distribution. See how to link with it for cluster execution [here](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/configuration/overview/>).

Now you can start writing your first CEP program using the Pattern API.

> The events in the `DataStream` to which you want to apply pattern matching must implement proper `equals()` and `hashCode()` methods because FlinkCEP uses them for comparing and matching events.

Java


    DataStream<Event> input = ...;

    Pattern<Event, ?> pattern = Pattern.<Event>begin("start")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(event -> event.getId() == 42))
        .next("middle")
        .subtype(SubEvent.class)
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(subEvent -> subEvent.getVolume() >= 10.0))
        .followedBy("end")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(event -> event.getName().equals("end")));

    PatternStream<Event> patternStream = CEP.pattern(input, pattern);

    DataStream<Alert> result = patternStream.process(
        new PatternProcessFunction<Event, Alert>() {
            @Override
            public void processMatch(
                    Map<String, List<Event>> pattern,
                    Context ctx,
                    Collector<Alert> out) throws Exception {
                out.collect(createAlertFrom(pattern));
            }
        });


Scala


    val input: DataStream[Event] = ...

    val pattern = Pattern.begin[Event]("start").where(_.getId == 42)
      .next("middle").subtype(classOf[SubEvent]).where(_.getVolume >= 10.0)
      .followedBy("end").where(_.getName == "end")

    val patternStream = CEP.pattern(input, pattern)

    val result: DataStream[Alert] = patternStream.process(
        new PatternProcessFunction[Event, Alert]() {
            override def processMatch(
                  `match`: util.Map[String, util.List[Event]],
                  ctx: PatternProcessFunction.Context,
                  out: Collector[Alert]): Unit = {
                out.collect(createAlertFrom(pattern))
            }
        })


##  The Pattern API #

The pattern API allows you to define complex pattern sequences that you want to extract from your input stream.

Each complex pattern sequence consists of multiple simple patterns, i.e. patterns looking for individual events with the same properties. From now on, we will call these simple patterns **patterns** , and the final complex pattern sequence we are searching for in the stream, the **pattern sequence**. You can see a pattern sequence as a graph of such patterns, where transitions from one pattern to the next occur based on user-specified _conditions_ , e.g. `event.getName().equals("end")`. A **match** is a sequence of input events which visits all patterns of the complex pattern graph, through a sequence of valid pattern transitions.

> Each pattern must have a unique name, which you use later to identify the matched events.

> Pattern names **CANNOT** contain the character `":"`.

In the rest of this section we will first describe how to define Individual Patterns, and then how you can combine individual patterns into Complex Patterns.

###  Individual Patterns #

A **Pattern** can be either a _singleton_ or a _looping_ pattern. Singleton patterns accept a single event, while looping patterns can accept more than one. In pattern matching symbols, the pattern `"a b+ c? d"` (or `"a"`, followed by _one or more_ `"b"`’s, optionally followed by a `"c"`, followed by a `"d"`), `a`, `c?`, and `d` are singleton patterns, while `b+` is a looping one. By default, a pattern is a singleton pattern and you can transform it to a looping one by using Quantifiers. Each pattern can have one or more Conditions based on which it accepts events.

####  Quantifiers #

In FlinkCEP, you can specify looping patterns using these methods: `pattern.oneOrMore()`, for patterns that expect one or more occurrences of a given event (e.g. the `b+` mentioned before); and `pattern.times(#ofTimes)`, for patterns that expect a specific number of occurrences of a given type of event, e.g. 4 `a`’s; and `pattern.times(#fromTimes, #toTimes)`, for patterns that expect a specific minimum number of occurrences and a maximum number of occurrences of a given type of event, e.g. 2-4 `a`s.

You can make looping patterns greedy using the `pattern.greedy()` method, but you cannot yet make group patterns greedy. You can make all patterns, looping or not, optional using the `pattern.optional()` method.

For a pattern named `start`, the following are valid quantifiers:

Java


    // expecting 4 occurrences
    start.times(4);

    // expecting 0 or 4 occurrences
    start.times(4).optional();

    // expecting 2, 3 or 4 occurrences
    start.times(2, 4);

    // expecting 2, 3 or 4 occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.times(2, 4).greedy();

    // expecting 0, 2, 3 or 4 occurrences
    start.times(2, 4).optional();

    // expecting 0, 2, 3 or 4 occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.times(2, 4).optional().greedy();

    // expecting 1 or more occurrences
    start.oneOrMore();

    // expecting 1 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.oneOrMore().greedy();

    // expecting 0 or more occurrences
    start.oneOrMore().optional();

    // expecting 0 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.oneOrMore().optional().greedy();

    // expecting 2 or more occurrences
    start.timesOrMore(2);

    // expecting 2 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.timesOrMore(2).greedy();

    // expecting 0, 2 or more occurrences
    start.timesOrMore(2).optional()

    // expecting 0, 2 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.timesOrMore(2).optional().greedy();


Scala


    // expecting 4 occurrences
    start.times(4)

    // expecting 0 or 4 occurrences
    start.times(4).optional()

    // expecting 2, 3 or 4 occurrences
    start.times(2, 4)

    // expecting 2, 3 or 4 occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.times(2, 4).greedy()

    // expecting 0, 2, 3 or 4 occurrences
    start.times(2, 4).optional()

    // expecting 0, 2, 3 or 4 occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.times(2, 4).optional().greedy()

    // expecting 1 or more occurrences
    start.oneOrMore()

    // expecting 1 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.oneOrMore().greedy()

    // expecting 0 or more occurrences
    start.oneOrMore().optional()

    // expecting 0 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.oneOrMore().optional().greedy()

    // expecting 2 or more occurrences
    start.timesOrMore(2)

    // expecting 2 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.timesOrMore(2).greedy()

    // expecting 0, 2 or more occurrences
    start.timesOrMore(2).optional()

    // expecting 0, 2 or more occurrences and repeating as many as possible
    start.timesOrMore(2).optional().greedy()


####  Conditions #

For every pattern you can specify a condition that an incoming event has to meet in order to be “accepted” into the pattern e.g. its value should be larger than 5, or larger than the average value of the previously accepted events. You can specify conditions on the event properties via the `pattern.where()`, `pattern.or()` or `pattern.until()` methods. These can be either `IterativeCondition`s or `SimpleCondition`s.

**Iterative Conditions:** This is the most general type of condition. This is how you can specify a condition that accepts subsequent events based on properties of the previously accepted events or a statistic over a subset of them.

Below is the code for an iterative condition that accepts the next event for a pattern named “middle” if its name starts with “foo”, and if the sum of the prices of the previously accepted events for that pattern plus the price of the current event do not exceed the value of 5.0. Iterative conditions can be powerful, especially in combination with looping patterns, e.g. `oneOrMore()`.

Java


    middle.oneOrMore()
        .subtype(SubEvent.class)
        .where(new IterativeCondition<SubEvent>() {
            @Override
            public boolean filter(SubEvent value, Context<SubEvent> ctx) throws Exception {
                if (!value.getName().startsWith("foo")) {
                    return false;
                }

                double sum = value.getPrice();
                for (Event event : ctx.getEventsForPattern("middle")) {
                    sum += event.getPrice();
                }
                return Double.compare(sum, 5.0) < 0;
            }
        });


Scala


    middle.oneOrMore()
        .subtype(classOf[SubEvent])
        .where(
            (value, ctx) => {
                lazy val sum = ctx.getEventsForPattern("middle").map(_.getPrice).sum
                value.getName.startsWith("foo") && sum + value.getPrice < 5.0
            }
        )


> The call to `ctx.getEventsForPattern(...)` finds all the previously accepted events for a given potential match. The cost of this operation can vary, so when implementing your condition, try to minimize its use.

Described context gives one access to event time characteristics as well. For more info see Time context.

**Simple Conditions:** This type of condition extends the aforementioned `IterativeCondition` class and decides whether to accept an event or not, based _only_ on properties of the event itself.

Java


    start.where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().startsWith("foo")));


Scala


    start.where(event => event.getName.startsWith("foo"))


Finally, you can also restrict the type of the accepted event to a subtype of the initial event type (here `Event`) via the `pattern.subtype(subClass)` method.

Java


    start.subtype(SubEvent.class)
            .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> ... /*some condition*/));


Scala


    start.subtype(classOf[SubEvent]).where(subEvent => ... /* some condition */)


**Combining Conditions:** As shown above, you can combine the `subtype` condition with additional conditions. This holds for every condition. You can arbitrarily combine conditions by sequentially calling `where()`. The final result will be the logical **AND** of the results of the individual conditions. To combine conditions using **OR** , you can use the `or()` method, as shown below.

Java


    pattern.where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> ... /*some condition*/))
            .or(SimpleCondition.of(value -> ... /*some condition*/));


Scala


    pattern.where(event => ... /* some condition */).or(event => ... /* or condition */)


**Stop condition:** In case of looping patterns (`oneOrMore()` and `oneOrMore().optional()`) you can also specify a stop condition, e.g. accept events with value larger than 5 until the sum of values is smaller than 50.

To better understand it, have a look at the following example. Given

  * pattern like `"(a+ until b)"` (one or more `"a"` until `"b"`)

  * a sequence of incoming events `"a1" "c" "a2" "b" "a3"`

  * the library will output results: `{a1 a2} {a1} {a2} {a3}`.

As you can see `{a1 a2 a3}` or `{a2 a3}` are not returned due to the stop condition.

####  `where(condition)` #

Defines a condition for the current pattern. To match the pattern, an event must satisfy the condition. Multiple consecutive where() clauses lead to their conditions being `AND`ed.

Java


    pattern.where(new IterativeCondition<Event>() {
        @Override
        public boolean filter(Event value, Context ctx) throws Exception {
            return ...; // some condition
        }
    });


Scala


    pattern.where(event => ... /* some condition */)


####  `or(condition)` #

Adds a new condition which is `OR`ed with an existing one. An event can match the pattern only if it passes at least one of the conditions.

Java


    pattern.where(new IterativeCondition<Event>() {
        @Override
        public boolean filter(Event value, Context ctx) throws Exception {
            return ...; // some condition
        }
    }).or(new IterativeCondition<Event>() {
        @Override
        public boolean filter(Event value, Context ctx) throws Exception {
            return ...; // alternative condition
        }
    });


Scala


    pattern.where(event => ... /* some condition */)
        .or(event => ... /* alternative condition */)


####  `until(condition)` #

Specifies a stop condition for a looping pattern. Meaning if event matching the given condition occurs, no more events will be accepted into the pattern. Applicable only in conjunction with `oneOrMore()` `NOTE:` It allows for cleaning state for corresponding pattern on event-based condition.

Java


    pattern.oneOrMore().until(new IterativeCondition<Event>() {
        @Override
        public boolean filter(Event value, Context ctx) throws Exception {
            return ...; // alternative condition
        }
    });


Scala


    pattern.oneOrMore().until(event => ... /* some condition */)


####  `subtype(subClass)` #

Defines a subtype condition for the current pattern. An event can only match the pattern if it is of this subtype.

Java


    pattern.subtype(SubEvent.class);


Scala


    pattern.subtype(classOf[SubEvent])


####  `oneOrMore()` #

Specifies that this pattern expects at least one occurrence of a matching event. By default a relaxed internal contiguity (between subsequent events) is used. For more info on internal contiguity see consecutive. It is advised to use either `until()` or `within()` to enable state clearing.

Java


    pattern.oneOrMore();


Scala


    pattern.oneOrMore()


####  `timesOrMore(#times)` #

Specifies that this pattern expects at least `#times` occurrences of a matching event. By default a relaxed internal contiguity (between subsequent events) is used. For more info on internal contiguity see consecutive.

Java


    pattern.timesOrMore(2);


####  `times(#ofTimes)` #

Specifies that this pattern expects an exact number of occurrences of a matching event. By default a relaxed internal contiguity (between subsequent events) is used. For more info on internal contiguity see consecutive.

Java


    pattern.times(2);


Scala


    pattern.times(2)


####  `times(#fromTimes, #toTimes)` #

Specifies that this pattern expects occurrences between `#fromTimes` and `#toTimes` of a matching event. By default a relaxed internal contiguity (between subsequent events) is used. For more info on internal contiguity see consecutive.

Java


    pattern.times(2, 4);


Scala


    pattern.times(2, 4)


####  `optional()` #

Specifies that this pattern is optional, i.e. it may not occur at all. This is applicable to all aforementioned quantifiers.

Java


    pattern.oneOrMore().optional();


Scala


    pattern.oneOrMore().optional()


####  `greedy()` #

Specifies that this pattern is greedy, i.e. it will repeat as many as possible. This is only applicable to quantifiers and it does not support group pattern currently.

Java


    pattern.oneOrMore().greedy();


Scala


    pattern.oneOrMore().greedy()


###  Combining Patterns #

Now that you’ve seen what an individual pattern can look like, it is time to see how to combine them into a full pattern sequence.

A pattern sequence has to start with an initial pattern, as shown below:

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> start = Pattern.<Event>begin("start");


Scala


    val start : Pattern[Event, _] = Pattern.begin("start")


Next, you can append more patterns to your pattern sequence by specifying the desired _contiguity conditions_ between them. FlinkCEP supports the following forms of contiguity between events:

  1. **Strict Contiguity** : Expects all matching events to appear strictly one after the other, without any non-matching events in-between.

  2. **Relaxed Contiguity** : Ignores non-matching events appearing in-between the matching ones.

  3. **Non-Deterministic Relaxed Contiguity** : Further relaxes contiguity, allowing additional matches that ignore some matching events.

To apply them between consecutive patterns, you can use:

  1. `next()`, for _strict_ ,
  2. `followedBy()`, for _relaxed_ , and
  3. `followedByAny()`, for _non-deterministic relaxed_ contiguity.

or

  1. `notNext()`, if you do not want an event type to directly follow another
  2. `notFollowedBy()`, if you do not want an event type to be anywhere between two other event types.

> A pattern sequence cannot end with `notFollowedBy()` if the time interval is not defined via `withIn()`.

> A **NOT** pattern cannot be preceded by an optional one.

Java


    // strict contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> strict = start.next("middle").where(...);

    // relaxed contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> relaxed = start.followedBy("middle").where(...);

    // non-deterministic relaxed contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> nonDetermin = start.followedByAny("middle").where(...);

    // NOT pattern with strict contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> strictNot = start.notNext("not").where(...);

    // NOT pattern with relaxed contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> relaxedNot = start.notFollowedBy("not").where(...);


Scala


    // strict contiguity
    val strict: Pattern[Event, _] = start.next("middle").where(...)

    // relaxed contiguity
    val relaxed: Pattern[Event, _] = start.followedBy("middle").where(...)

    // non-deterministic relaxed contiguity
    val nonDetermin: Pattern[Event, _] = start.followedByAny("middle").where(...)

    // NOT pattern with strict contiguity
    val strictNot: Pattern[Event, _] = start.notNext("not").where(...)

    // NOT pattern with relaxed contiguity
    val relaxedNot: Pattern[Event, _] = start.notFollowedBy("not").where(...)


Relaxed contiguity means that only the first succeeding matching event will be matched, while with non-deterministic relaxed contiguity, multiple matches will be emitted for the same beginning. As an example, a pattern `"a b"`, given the event sequence `"a", "c", "b1", "b2"`, will give the following results:

  1. Strict Contiguity between `"a"` and `"b"`: `{}` (no match), the `"c"` after `"a"` causes `"a"` to be discarded.

  2. Relaxed Contiguity between `"a"` and `"b"`: `{a b1}`, as relaxed continuity is viewed as “skip non-matching events till the next matching one”.

  3. Non-Deterministic Relaxed Contiguity between `"a"` and `"b"`: `{a b1}`, `{a b2}`, as this is the most general form.

It’s also possible to define a temporal constraint for the pattern to be valid. For example, you can define that a pattern should occur within 10 seconds via the `pattern.within()` method. Temporal patterns are supported for both [processing and event time](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/concepts/time/>).

> A pattern sequence can only have one temporal constraint. If multiple such constraints are defined on different individual patterns, then the smallest is applied.

Java


    next.within(Time.seconds(10));


Scala


    next.within(Time.seconds(10))


Notice that a pattern sequence can end with `notFollowedBy()` with temporal constraint E.g. a pattern like:

Java


    Pattern.<Event>begin("start")
        .next("middle")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("a")))
        .notFollowedBy("end")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("b")))
        .within(Time.seconds(10));


Scala


    Pattern.begin("start").where(_.getName().equals("a"))
    .notFollowedBy("end").where(_.getName == "b")
    .within(Time.seconds(10))


####  Contiguity within looping patterns #

You can apply the same contiguity condition as discussed in the previous section within a looping pattern. The contiguity will be applied between elements accepted into such a pattern. To illustrate the above with an example, a pattern sequence `"a b+ c"` (`"a"` followed by any(non-deterministic relaxed) sequence of one or more `"b"`’s followed by a `"c"`) with input `"a", "b1", "d1", "b2", "d2", "b3" "c"` will have the following results:

  1. **Strict Contiguity** : `{a b1 c}`, `{a b2 c}`, `{a b3 c}` \- there are no adjacent `"b"`s.

  2. **Relaxed Contiguity** : `{a b1 c}`, `{a b1 b2 c}`, `{a b1 b2 b3 c}`, `{a b2 c}`, `{a b2 b3 c}`, `{a b3 c}` \- `"d"`’s are ignored.

  3. **Non-Deterministic Relaxed Contiguity** : `{a b1 c}`, `{a b1 b2 c}`, `{a b1 b3 c}`, `{a b1 b2 b3 c}`, `{a b2 c}`, `{a b2 b3 c}`, `{a b3 c}` \- notice the `{a b1 b3 c}`, which is the result of relaxing contiguity between `"b"`’s.

For looping patterns (e.g. `oneOrMore()` and `times()`) the default is _relaxed contiguity_. If you want strict contiguity, you have to explicitly specify it by using the `consecutive()` call, and if you want _non-deterministic relaxed contiguity_ you can use the `allowCombinations()` call.

####  `consecutive()` #

Works in conjunction with `oneOrMore()` and `times()` and imposes strict contiguity between the matching events, i.e. any non-matching element breaks the match (as in `next()`). If not applied a relaxed contiguity (as in `followedBy()`) is used.

E.g. a pattern like:

Java


    Pattern.<Event>begin("start")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("c")))
        .followedBy("middle")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("a")))
        .oneOrMore()
        .consecutive()
        .followedBy("end1")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("b")));


Scala


    Pattern.begin("start").where(_.getName().equals("c"))
      .followedBy("middle").where(_.getName().equals("a"))
                           .oneOrMore().consecutive()
      .followedBy("end1").where(_.getName().equals("b"))


Will generate the following matches for an input sequence: `C D A1 A2 A3 D A4 B` with consecutive applied: `{C A1 B}`, `{C A1 A2 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 B}` without consecutive applied: `{C A1 B}`, `{C A1 A2 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 A4 B}`.

####  `allowCombinations()` #

Works in conjunction with `oneOrMore()` and `times()` and imposes non-deterministic relaxed contiguity between the matching events (as in `followedByAny()`). If not applied a relaxed contiguity (as in `followedBy()`) is used.

E.g. a pattern like:

Java


    Pattern.<Event>begin("start")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("c")))
        .followedBy("middle")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("a")))
        .oneOrMore()
        .allowCombinations()
        .followedBy("end1")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("b")));


Scala


    Pattern.begin("start").where(_.getName().equals("c"))
      .followedBy("middle").where(_.getName().equals("a"))
                           .oneOrMore().allowCombinations()
      .followedBy("end1").where(_.getName().equals("b"))


Will generate the following matches for an input sequence: `C D A1 A2 A3 D A4 B`. with combinations enabled: `{C A1 B}`, `{C A1 A2 B}`, `{C A1 A3 B}`, `{C A1 A4 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A4 B}`, `{C A1 A3 A4 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 A4 B}` without combinations enabled: `{C A1 B}`, `{C A1 A2 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 B}`, `{C A1 A2 A3 A4 B}`.

###  Groups of patterns #

It’s also possible to define a pattern sequence as the condition for `begin`, `followedBy`, `followedByAny` and `next`. The pattern sequence will be considered as the matching condition logically and a `GroupPattern` will be returned and it is possible to apply `oneOrMore()`, `times(#ofTimes)`, `times(#fromTimes, #toTimes)`, `optional()`, `consecutive()`, `allowCombinations()` to the `GroupPattern`.

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> start = Pattern.begin(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("start").where(...).followedBy("start_middle").where(...)
    );

    // strict contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> strict = start.next(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("next_start").where(...).followedBy("next_middle").where(...)
    ).times(3);

    // relaxed contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> relaxed = start.followedBy(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("followedby_start").where(...).followedBy("followedby_middle").where(...)
    ).oneOrMore();

    // non-deterministic relaxed contiguity
    Pattern<Event, ?> nonDetermin = start.followedByAny(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("followedbyany_start").where(...).followedBy("followedbyany_middle").where(...)
    ).optional();


Scala


    val start: Pattern[Event, _] = Pattern.begin(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("start").where(...).followedBy("start_middle").where(...)
    )

    // strict contiguity
    val strict: Pattern[Event, _] = start.next(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("next_start").where(...).followedBy("next_middle").where(...)
    ).times(3)

    // relaxed contiguity
    val relaxed: Pattern[Event, _] = start.followedBy(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("followedby_start").where(...).followedBy("followedby_middle").where(...)
    ).oneOrMore()

    // non-deterministic relaxed contiguity
    val nonDetermin: Pattern[Event, _] = start.followedByAny(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("followedbyany_start").where(...).followedBy("followedbyany_middle").where(...)
    ).optional()


####  `begin(#name)` #

Defines a starting pattern.

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> start = Pattern.<Event>begin("start");


Scala


    val start = Pattern.begin[Event]("start")


####  `begin(#pattern_sequence)` #

Defines a starting pattern

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> start = Pattern.<Event>begin(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    );


Scala


    val start = Pattern.begin(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    )


####  `next(#name)` #

Appends a new pattern. A matching event has to directly succeed the previous matching event (strict contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> next = start.next("middle");


Scala


    val next = start.next("middle")


####  `next(#pattern_sequence)` #

Appends a new pattern. A sequence of matching events have to directly succeed the previous matching event (strict contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> next = start.next(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    );


Scala


    val next = start.next(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    )


####  `followedBy(#name)` #

Appends a new pattern. Other events can occur between a matching event and the previous matching event (relaxed contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> followedBy = start.followedBy("middle");


Scala


    val followedBy = start.followedBy("middle")


####  `followedBy(#pattern_sequence)` #

Appends a new pattern. Other events can occur between a matching event and the previous matching event (relaxed contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> followedBy = start.followedBy(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    );


Scala


    val followedBy = start.followedBy(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    )


####  `followedByAny(#name)` #

Appends a new pattern. Other events can occur between a matching event and the previous matching event, and alternative matches will be presented for every alternative matching event (non-deterministic relaxed contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> followedByAny = start.followedByAny("middle");


Scala


    val followedByAny = start.followedByAny("middle")


####  `followedByAny(#pattern_sequence)` #

Appends a new pattern. Other events can occur between a matching event and the previous matching event, and alternative matches will be presented for every alternative matching event (non-deterministic relaxed contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> next = start.next(
        Pattern.<Event>begin("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    );


Scala


    val followedByAny = start.followedByAny(
        Pattern.begin[Event]("start").where(...).followedBy("middle").where(...)
    )


####  `notNext()` #

Appends a new negative pattern. A matching (negative) event has to directly succeed the previous matching event (strict contiguity) for the partial match to be discarded.

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> notNext = start.notNext("not");


Scala


    val notNext = start.notNext("not")


####  `notFollowedBy()` #

Appends a new negative pattern. A partial matching event sequence will be discarded even if other events occur between the matching (negative) event and the previous matching event (relaxed contiguity).

Java


    Pattern<Event, ?> notFollowedBy = start.notFollowedBy("not");


Scala


    val notFollowedBy = start.notFollowedBy("not")


####  `within(time)` #

Defines the maximum time interval for an event sequence to match the pattern. If a non-completed event sequence exceeds this time, it is discarded.

Java


    pattern.within(Time.seconds(10));


Scala


    pattern.within(Time.seconds(10))


###  After Match Skip Strategy #

For a given pattern, the same event may be assigned to multiple successful matches. To control to how many matches an event will be assigned, you need to specify the skip strategy called `AfterMatchSkipStrategy`. There are five types of skip strategies, listed as follows:

  * **_NO_SKIP_** : Every possible match will be emitted.
  * **_SKIP_TO_NEXT_** : Discards every partial match that started with the same event, emitted match was started.
  * **_SKIP_PAST_LAST_EVENT_** : Discards every partial match that started after the match started but before it ended.
  * **_SKIP_TO_FIRST_** : Discards every partial match that started after the match started but before the first event of _PatternName_ occurred.
  * **_SKIP_TO_LAST_** : Discards every partial match that started after the match started but before the last event of _PatternName_ occurred.

Notice that when using _SKIP_TO_FIRST_ and _SKIP_TO_LAST_ skip strategy, a valid _PatternName_ should also be specified.

For example, for a given pattern `b+ c` and a data stream `b1 b2 b3 c`, the differences between these four skip strategies are as follows:

Skip Strategy | Result |  Description
---|---|---
**NO_SKIP** |  `b1 b2 b3 c`
`b2 b3 c`
`b3 c`
| After found matching `b1 b2 b3 c`, the match process will not discard any result.
**SKIP_TO_NEXT** |  `b1 b2 b3 c`
`b2 b3 c`
`b3 c`
| After found matching `b1 b2 b3 c`, the match process will not discard any result, because no other match could start at b1.
**SKIP_PAST_LAST_EVENT** |  `b1 b2 b3 c`
| After found matching `b1 b2 b3 c`, the match process will discard all started partial matches.
**SKIP_TO_FIRST**[`b`] |  `b1 b2 b3 c`
`b2 b3 c`
`b3 c`
| After found matching `b1 b2 b3 c`, the match process will try to discard all partial matches started before `b1`, but there are no such matches. Therefore nothing will be discarded.
**SKIP_TO_LAST**[`b`] |  `b1 b2 b3 c`
`b3 c`
| After found matching `b1 b2 b3 c`, the match process will try to discard all partial matches started before `b3`. There is one such match `b2 b3 c`

Have a look also at another example to better see the difference between NO_SKIP and SKIP_TO_FIRST: Pattern: `(a | b | c) (b | c) c+.greedy d` and sequence: `a b c1 c2 c3 d` Then the results will be:

Skip Strategy | Result |  Description
---|---|---
**NO_SKIP** |  `a b c1 c2 c3 d`
`b c1 c2 c3 d`
`c1 c2 c3 d`
| After found matching `a b c1 c2 c3 d`, the match process will not discard any result.
**SKIP_TO_FIRST**[`c*`] |  `a b c1 c2 c3 d`
`c1 c2 c3 d`
| After found matching `a b c1 c2 c3 d`, the match process will discard all partial matches started before `c1`. There is one such match `b c1 c2 c3 d`.

To better understand the difference between NO_SKIP and SKIP_TO_NEXT take a look at following example: Pattern: `a b+` and sequence: `a b1 b2 b3` Then the results will be:

Skip Strategy | Result |  Description
---|---|---
**NO_SKIP** |  `a b1`
`a b1 b2`
`a b1 b2 b3`
| After found matching `a b1`, the match process will not discard any result.
**SKIP_TO_NEXT** |  `a b1`
| After found matching `a b1`, the match process will discard all partial matches started at `a`. This means neither `a b1 b2` nor `a b1 b2 b3` could be generated.

To specify which skip strategy to use, just create an `AfterMatchSkipStrategy` by calling:

Function | Description
---|---
`AfterMatchSkipStrategy.noSkip()` | Create a **NO_SKIP** skip strategy
`AfterMatchSkipStrategy.skipToNext()` | Create a **SKIP_TO_NEXT** skip strategy
`AfterMatchSkipStrategy.skipPastLastEvent()` | Create a **SKIP_PAST_LAST_EVENT** skip strategy
`AfterMatchSkipStrategy.skipToFirst(patternName)` | Create a **SKIP_TO_FIRST** skip strategy with the referenced pattern name _patternName_
`AfterMatchSkipStrategy.skipToLast(patternName)` | Create a **SKIP_TO_LAST** skip strategy with the referenced pattern name _patternName_

Then apply the skip strategy to a pattern by calling:

Java


    AfterMatchSkipStrategy skipStrategy = ...;
    Pattern.begin("patternName", skipStrategy);


Scala


    val skipStrategy = ...
    Pattern.begin("patternName", skipStrategy)


> For `SKIP_TO_FIRST`/`LAST` there are two options how to handle cases when there are no events mapped to the PatternName. By default a NO_SKIP strategy will be used in this case. The other option is to throw exception in such situation. One can enable this option by:

Java


    AfterMatchSkipStrategy.skipToFirst(patternName).throwExceptionOnMiss();


Scala


    AfterMatchSkipStrategy.skipToFirst(patternName).throwExceptionOnMiss()


##  Detecting Patterns #

After specifying the pattern sequence you are looking for, it is time to apply it to your input stream to detect potential matches. To run a stream of events against your pattern sequence, you have to create a `PatternStream`. Given an input stream `input`, a pattern `pattern` and an optional comparator `comparator` used to sort events with the same timestamp in case of EventTime or that arrived at the same moment, you create the `PatternStream` by calling:

Java


    DataStream<Event> input = ...;
    Pattern<Event, ?> pattern = ...;
    EventComparator<Event> comparator = ...; // optional

    PatternStream<Event> patternStream = CEP.pattern(input, pattern, comparator);


Scala


    val input : DataStream[Event] = ...
    val pattern : Pattern[Event, _] = ...
    var comparator : EventComparator[Event] = ... // optional

    val patternStream: PatternStream[Event] = CEP.pattern(input, pattern, comparator)


The input stream can be _keyed_ or _non-keyed_ depending on your use-case.

> Applying your pattern on a non-keyed stream will result in a job with parallelism equal to 1.

###  Selecting from Patterns #

Once you have obtained a `PatternStream` you can apply transformation to detected event sequences. The suggested way of doing that is by `PatternProcessFunction`.

A `PatternProcessFunction` has a `processMatch` method which is called for each matching event sequence. It receives a match in the form of `Map<String, List<IN>>` where the key is the name of each pattern in your pattern sequence and the value is a list of all accepted events for that pattern (`IN` is the type of your input elements). The events for a given pattern are ordered by timestamp. The reason for returning a list of accepted events for each pattern is that when using looping patterns (e.g. `oneToMany()` and `times()`), more than one event may be accepted for a given pattern.


    class MyPatternProcessFunction<IN, OUT> extends PatternProcessFunction<IN, OUT> {
        @Override
        public void processMatch(Map<String, List<IN>> match, Context ctx, Collector<OUT> out) throws Exception;
            IN startEvent = match.get("start").get(0);
            IN endEvent = match.get("end").get(0);
            out.collect(OUT(startEvent, endEvent));
        }
    }


The `PatternProcessFunction` gives access to a `Context` object. Thanks to it, one can access time related characteristics such as `currentProcessingTime` or `timestamp` of current match (which is the timestamp of the last element assigned to the match). For more info see Time context. Through this context one can also emit results to a [side-output](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/datastream/side_output/>).

####  Handling Timed Out Partial Patterns #

Whenever a pattern has a window length attached via the `within` keyword, it is possible that partial event sequences are discarded because they exceed the window length. To act upon a timed out partial match one can use `TimedOutPartialMatchHandler` interface. The interface is supposed to be used in a mixin style. This mean you can additionally implement this interface with your `PatternProcessFunction`. The `TimedOutPartialMatchHandler` provides the additional `processTimedOutMatch` method which will be called for every timed out partial match.


    class MyPatternProcessFunction<IN, OUT> extends PatternProcessFunction<IN, OUT> implements TimedOutPartialMatchHandler<IN> {
        @Override
        public void processMatch(Map<String, List<IN>> match, Context ctx, Collector<OUT> out) throws Exception;
            ...
        }

        @Override
        public void processTimedOutMatch(Map<String, List<IN>> match, Context ctx) throws Exception;
            IN startEvent = match.get("start").get(0);
            ctx.output(outputTag, T(startEvent));
        }
    }


Note The `processTimedOutMatch` does not give one access to the main output. You can still emit results through [side-outputs](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/datastream/side_output/>) though, through the `Context` object.

####  Convenience API #

The aforementioned `PatternProcessFunction` was introduced in Flink 1.8 and since then it is the recommended way to interact with matches. One can still use the old style API like `select`/`flatSelect`, which internally will be translated into a `PatternProcessFunction`.

Java


    PatternStream<Event> patternStream = CEP.pattern(input, pattern);

    OutputTag<String> outputTag = new OutputTag<String>("side-output"){};

    SingleOutputStreamOperator<ComplexEvent> flatResult = patternStream.flatSelect(
        outputTag,
        new PatternFlatTimeoutFunction<Event, TimeoutEvent>() {
            public void timeout(
                    Map<String, List<Event>> pattern,
                    long timeoutTimestamp,
                    Collector<TimeoutEvent> out) throws Exception {
                out.collect(new TimeoutEvent());
            }
        },
        new PatternFlatSelectFunction<Event, ComplexEvent>() {
            public void flatSelect(Map<String, List<IN>> pattern, Collector<OUT> out) throws Exception {
                out.collect(new ComplexEvent());
            }
        }
    );

    DataStream<TimeoutEvent> timeoutFlatResult = flatResult.getSideOutput(outputTag);


Scala


    val patternStream: PatternStream[Event] = CEP.pattern(input, pattern)

    val outputTag = OutputTag[String]("side-output")

    val result: SingleOutputStreamOperator[ComplexEvent] = patternStream.flatSelect(outputTag){
        (pattern: Map[String, Iterable[Event]], timestamp: Long, out: Collector[TimeoutEvent]) =>
            out.collect(TimeoutEvent())
    } {
        (pattern: mutable.Map[String, Iterable[Event]], out: Collector[ComplexEvent]) =>
            out.collect(ComplexEvent())
    }

    val timeoutResult: DataStream[TimeoutEvent] = result.getSideOutput(outputTag)


##  Time in CEP library #

###  Handling Lateness in Event Time #

In `CEP` the order in which elements are processed matters. To guarantee that elements are processed in the correct order when working in event time, an incoming element is initially put in a buffer where elements are _sorted in ascending order based on their timestamp_ , and when a watermark arrives, all the elements in this buffer with timestamps smaller than that of the watermark are processed. This implies that elements between watermarks are processed in event-time order.

> The library assumes correctness of the watermark when working in event time.

To guarantee that elements across watermarks are processed in event-time order, Flink’s CEP library assumes _correctness of the watermark_ , and considers as _late_ elements whose timestamp is smaller than that of the last seen watermark. Late elements are not further processed. Also, you can specify a sideOutput tag to collect the late elements come after the last seen watermark, you can use it like this.

Java


    PatternStream<Event> patternStream = CEP.pattern(input, pattern);

    OutputTag<String> lateDataOutputTag = new OutputTag<String>("late-data"){};

    SingleOutputStreamOperator<ComplexEvent> result = patternStream
        .sideOutputLateData(lateDataOutputTag)
        .select(
            new PatternSelectFunction<Event, ComplexEvent>() {...}
        );

    DataStream<String> lateData = result.getSideOutput(lateDataOutputTag);


Scala


    val patternStream: PatternStream[Event] = CEP.pattern(input, pattern)

    val lateDataOutputTag = OutputTag[String]("late-data")

    val result: SingleOutputStreamOperator[ComplexEvent] = patternStream
          .sideOutputLateData(lateDataOutputTag)
          .select{
              pattern: Map[String, Iterable[ComplexEvent]] => ComplexEvent()
          }

    val lateData: DataStream[String] = result.getSideOutput(lateDataOutputTag)


###  Time context #

In PatternProcessFunction as well as in IterativeCondition user has access to a context that implements `TimeContext` as follows:


    /**
     * Enables access to time related characteristics such as current processing time or timestamp of
     * currently processed element. Used in {@link PatternProcessFunction} and
     * {@link org.apache.flink.cep.pattern.conditions.IterativeCondition}
     */
    @PublicEvolving
    public interface TimeContext {

    	/**
    	 * Timestamp of the element currently being processed.
    	 *
    	 * <p>In case of {@link org.apache.flink.streaming.api.TimeCharacteristic#ProcessingTime} this
    	 * will be set to the time when event entered the cep operator.
    	 */
    	long timestamp();

    	/** Returns the current processing time. */
    	long currentProcessingTime();
    }


This context gives user access to time characteristics of processed events (incoming records in case of `IterativeCondition` and matches in case of `PatternProcessFunction`). Call to `TimeContext#currentProcessingTime` always gives you the value of current processing time and this call should be preferred to e.g. calling `System.currentTimeMillis()`.

In case of `TimeContext#timestamp()` the returned value is equal to assigned timestamp in case of `EventTime`. In `ProcessingTime` this will equal to the point of time when said event entered cep operator (or when the match was generated in case of `PatternProcessFunction`). This means that the value will be consistent across multiple calls to that method.

##  Optional Configuration #

Options to configure the cache capacity of Flink CEP `SharedBuffer`. It could accelerate the CEP operate process speed and limit the number of elements of cache in pure memory.

Note It’s only effective to limit usage of memory when `state.backend.type` was set as `rocksdb`, which would transport the elements exceeded the number of the cache into the rocksdb state storage instead of memory state storage. The configuration items are helpful for memory limitation when the `state.backend.type` is set as rocksdb. By contrast，when the `state.backend.type` is set as not `rocksdb`, the cache would cause performance decreased. Compared with old cache implemented with `Map`, the state part will contain more elements swapped out from new guava-cache, which would make it heavier to `copy on write` for state.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### pipeline.cep.sharedbuffer.cache.entry-slots

| 1024 | Integer | The Config option to set the maximum element number the entryCache of SharedBuffer could hold. And it could accelerate the CEP operate process speed with state.And it could accelerate the CEP operate process speed and limit the capacity of cache in pure memory. Note: It's only effective to limit usage of memory when 'state.backend' was set as 'rocksdb', which would transport the elements exceeded the number of the cache into the rocksdb state storage instead of memory state storage.

##### pipeline.cep.sharedbuffer.cache.event-slots

| 1024 | Integer | The Config option to set the maximum element number the eventsBufferCache of SharedBuffer could hold. And it could accelerate the CEP operate process speed and limit the capacity of cache in pure memory. Note: It's only effective to limit usage of memory when 'state.backend' was set as 'rocksdb', which would transport the elements exceeded the number of the cache into the rocksdb state storage instead of memory state storage.

##### pipeline.cep.sharedbuffer.cache.statistics-interval

| 30 min | Duration | The interval to log the information of cache state statistics in CEP operator.

##  Examples #

The following example detects the pattern `start, middle(name = "error") -> end(name = "critical")` on a keyed data stream of `Events`. The events are keyed by their `id`s and a valid pattern has to occur within 10 seconds. The whole processing is done with event time.

Java


    StreamExecutionEnvironment env = ...;

    DataStream<Event> input = ...;

    DataStream<Event> partitionedInput = input.keyBy(new KeySelector<Event, Integer>() {
    	@Override
    	public Integer getKey(Event value) throws Exception {
    		return value.getId();
    	}
    });

    Pattern<Event, ?> pattern = Pattern.<Event>begin("start")
        .next("middle")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("error")))
        .followedBy("end")
        .where(SimpleCondition.of(value -> value.getName().equals("critical")))
        .within(Time.seconds(10));

    PatternStream<Event> patternStream = CEP.pattern(partitionedInput, pattern);

    DataStream<Alert> alerts = patternStream.select(new PatternSelectFunction<Event, Alert>() {
    	@Override
    	public Alert select(Map<String, List<Event>> pattern) throws Exception {
    		return createAlert(pattern);
    	}
    });


Scala


    val env : StreamExecutionEnvironment = ...

    val input : DataStream[Event] = ...

    val partitionedInput = input.keyBy(event => event.getId)

    val pattern = Pattern.begin[Event]("start")
      .next("middle").where(_.getName == "error")
      .followedBy("end").where(_.getName == "critical")
      .within(Time.seconds(10))

    val patternStream = CEP.pattern(partitionedInput, pattern)

    val alerts = patternStream.select(createAlert(_))


##  Migrating from an older Flink version(pre 1.5) #

###  Migrating from Flink <= 1.5 #

In Flink 1.13 we dropped direct savepoint backward compatibility with Flink <= 1.5. If you want to restore from a savepoint taken from an older version, migrate it first to a newer version (1.6-1.12), take a savepoint and then use that savepoint to restore with Flink >= 1.13.

__Back to top