**Paimon**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  Paimon Pipeline Connector #

The Paimon Pipeline connector can be used as the _Data Sink_ of the pipeline, and write data to [Paimon](<https://paimon.apache.org>). This document describes how to set up the Paimon Pipeline connector.

##  What can the connector do? #

  * Create table automatically if not exist
  * Schema change synchronization
  * Data synchronization

##  How to create Pipeline #

The pipeline for reading data from MySQL and sink to Paimon can be defined as follows:


    source:
      type: mysql
      name: MySQL Source
      hostname: 127.0.0.1
      port: 3306
      username: admin
      password: pass
      tables: adb.\.*, bdb.user_table_[0-9]+, [app|web].order_\.*
      server-id: 5401-5404

    sink:
      type: paimon
      name: Paimon Sink
      catalog.properties.metastore: filesystem
      catalog.properties.warehouse: /path/warehouse

    pipeline:
      name: MySQL to Paimon Pipeline
      parallelism: 2


##  Pipeline Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---
type | required | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be `'paimon'`.
name | optional | (none) | String | The name of the sink.
catalog.properties.metastore | required | (none) | String | Metastore of paimon catalog, supports filesystem and hive.
catalog.properties.warehouse | optional | (none) | String | The warehouse root path of catalog.
catalog.properties.uri | optional | (none) | String | Uri of metastore server.
commit.user-prefix | optional | `"admin"` | String | User name for committing data files.
partition.key | optional | (none) | String | Partition keys for each partitioned table, allow setting multiple primary keys for multiTables. Each table are separated by ';', and each partition key are separated by ','. For example, we can set partition.key of two tables by 'testdb.table1:id1,id2;testdb.table2:name'.
catalog.properties.* | optional | (none) | String | Pass options of Paimon catalog to pipeline，See [Paimon catalog options](<https://paimon.apache.org/docs/master/maintenance/configurations/#catalogoptions>)。
table.properties.* | optional | (none) | String | Pass options of Paimon table to pipeline，See [Paimon table options](<https://paimon.apache.org/docs/master/maintenance/configurations/#coreoptions>)。

##  Usage Notes #

  * Only support Paimon primary key table, so the source table must have primary keys.

  * Not support exactly-once. The connector uses at-least-once + primary key table for idempotent writing.

##  Data Type Mapping #

CDC type | Paimon type | NOTE
---|---|---
TINYINT | TINYINT |
SMALLINT | SMALLINT |
INT | INT |
BIGINT | BIGINT |
FLOAT | FLOAT |
DOUBLE | DOUBLE |
DECIMAL(p, s) | DECIMAL(p, s) |
BOOLEAN | BOOLEAN |
DATE | DATE |
TIMESTAMP | TIMESTAMP |
TIMESTAMP_LTZ | TIMESTAMP_LTZ |
CHAR(n) | CHAR(n) |
VARCHAR(n) | VARCHAR(n) |
VARIANT | VARIANT |

__Back to top