**SHOW Statements**

#  SHOW Statements #

With Hive dialect, the following SHOW statements are supported for now:

  * SHOW DATABASES
  * SHOW TABLES
  * SHOW VIEWS
  * SHOW PARTITIONS
  * SHOW FUNCTIONS

##  SHOW DATABASES #

###  Description #

`SHOW DATABASES` statement is used to list all the databases defined in the metastore.

###  Syntax #


    SHOW (DATABASES|SCHEMAS);


The use of `SCHEMA` and `DATABASE` are interchangeable - they mean the same thing.

##  SHOW TABLES #

###  Description #

`SHOW TABLES` statement lists all the base tables and views in the current database.

###  Syntax #


    SHOW TABLES;


##  SHOW VIEWS #

###  Description #

`SHOW VIEWS` statement lists all the views in the current database.

###  Syntax #


    SHOW VIEWS;


##  SHOW PARTITIONS #

###  Description #

`SHOW PARTITIONS` lists all the existing partitions or the partitions matching the specified partition spec for a given base table.

###  Syntax #


    SHOW PARTITIONS table_name [ partition_spec ];
    partition_spec:
      : (partition_column = partition_col_value, partition_column = partition_col_value, ...)


###  Parameter #

  * partition_spec

The optional `partition_spec` is used to what kind of partition should be returned. When specified, the partitions that match the `partition_spec` specification are returned. The `partition_spec` can be partial which means you can specific only part of partition columns for listing the partitions.

###  Examples #


    -- list all partitions
    SHOW PARTITIONS t1;

    -- specific a full partition partition spec to list specific partition
    SHOW PARTITIONS t1 PARTITION (year = 2022, month = 12);

    -- specific a partial partition spec to list all the specifc partitions
    SHOW PARTITIONS t1 PARTITION (year = 2022);


##  SHOW FUNCTIONS #

###  Description #

`SHOW FUNCTIONS` statement is used to list all the user defined and builtin functions.

###  Syntax #


    SHOW FUNCTIONS;