Package [org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit](<package-summary.html>)

# Interface RateLimiterStrategy<SplitT extends [SourceSplit](<../../SourceSplit.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source")>

Type Parameters:
    `SplitT` \- The type of the source splits.

All Superinterfaces:
    `[Serializable](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/io/Serializable.html> "class or interface in java.io")`

* * *

[@PublicEvolving](<../../../../../annotation/PublicEvolving.html> "annotation interface in org.apache.flink.annotation") public interface RateLimiterStrategy<SplitT extends [SourceSplit](<../../SourceSplit.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source")> extends [Serializable](<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/io/Serializable.html> "class or interface in java.io")

A factory for [`RateLimiters`](<RateLimiter.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit") which apply rate-limiting to a source sub-task.

  * ## Method Summary

Modifier and Type

Method

Description

`[RateLimiter](<RateLimiter.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit")<[SplitT](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "type parameter in RateLimiterStrategy")>`

`createRateLimiter(int parallelism)`

Creates a [`RateLimiter`](<RateLimiter.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit") that limits the rate of records going through.

`static [RateLimiterStrategy](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit")`

`noOp()`

Creates a convenience `RateLimiterStrategy` that is not limiting the records rate.

`static [RateLimiterStrategy](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit")`

`perCheckpoint(int recordsPerCheckpoint)`

Creates a `RateLimiterStrategy` that is limiting the number of records per checkpoint.

`static [RateLimiterStrategy](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit")`

`perSecond(double recordsPerSecond)`

Creates a `RateLimiterStrategy` that is limiting the number of records per second.

  * ## Method Details

    * ### createRateLimiter

[RateLimiter](<RateLimiter.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit")<[SplitT](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "type parameter in RateLimiterStrategy")> createRateLimiter(int parallelism)

Creates a [`RateLimiter`](<RateLimiter.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit") that limits the rate of records going through. When there is parallelism, the limiting rate is evenly reduced per subtask, such that all the sub-tasks limiting rates equals the cumulative limiting rate.

    * ### perSecond

static [RateLimiterStrategy](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit") perSecond(double recordsPerSecond)

Creates a `RateLimiterStrategy` that is limiting the number of records per second.

Parameters:
    `recordsPerSecond` \- The number of records produced per second. The actual number of produced records is subject to rounding due to dividing the number of produced records among the parallel instances.
    * ### perCheckpoint

static [RateLimiterStrategy](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit") perCheckpoint(int recordsPerCheckpoint)

Creates a `RateLimiterStrategy` that is limiting the number of records per checkpoint.

Parameters:
    `recordsPerCheckpoint` \- The number of records produced per checkpoint. This value has to be greater or equal to parallelism. The actual number of produced records is subject to rounding due to dividing the number of produced records among the parallel instances.
    * ### noOp

static [RateLimiterStrategy](<RateLimiterStrategy.html> "interface in org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.util.ratelimit") noOp()

Creates a convenience `RateLimiterStrategy` that is not limiting the records rate.