**Sort/Cluster/Distributed By**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/table/hive-compatibility/hive-dialect/queries/sort-cluster-distribute-by/>).

#  Sort/Cluster/Distributed by Clause #

##  Sort By #

###  Description #

Unlike [ORDER BY](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.1/docs/dev/table/hive-compatibility/hive-dialect/queries/overview/#order-by-clause>) which guarantees a total order of output, `SORT BY` only guarantees the result rows with each partition is in the user specified order. So when there’s more than one partition, `SORT BY` may return result that’s partially ordered.

###  Syntax #


    query: SELECT expression [ , ... ] FROM src sortBy
    sortBy: SORT BY expression colOrder [ , ... ]
    colOrder: ( ASC | DESC )


###  Parameters #

  * colOrder

it’s used specified the order of returned rows. The default order is `ASC`.

###  Examples #


    SELECT x, y FROM t SORT BY x;
    SELECT x, y FROM t SORT BY abs(y) DESC;


##  Distribute By #

###  Description #

The `DISTRIBUTE BY` clause is used to repartition the data. The data with same value evaluated by the specified expression will be in same partition.

###  Syntax #


    distributeBy: DISTRIBUTE BY expression [ , ... ]
    query: SELECT expression [ , ... ] FROM src distributeBy


###  Examples #


    -- only use DISTRIBUTE BY clause
    SELECT x, y FROM t DISTRIBUTE BY x;
    SELECT x, y FROM t DISTRIBUTE BY abs(y);

    -- use both DISTRIBUTE BY and SORT BY clause
    SELECT x, y FROM t DISTRIBUTE BY x SORT BY y DESC;


##  Cluster By #

###  Description #

`CLUSTER BY` is a short-cut for both `DISTRIBUTE BY` and `SORT BY`. The `CLUSTER BY` is used to first repartition the data based on the input expressions and sort the data with each partition. Also, this clause only guarantees the data is sorted within each partition.

###  Syntax #


    clusterBy: CLUSTER BY expression [ , ... ]
    query: SELECT expression [ , ... ] FROM src clusterBy


###  Examples #


    SELECT x, y FROM t CLUSTER BY x;
    SELECT x, y FROM t CLUSTER BY abs(y);