**Events**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/ops/events/>).

#  Events #

Flink exposes a event reporting system that allows gathering and exposing events to external systems.

##  Reporting events #

You can access the event system from any user function that extends [RichFunction](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/dev/datastream/user_defined_functions/#rich-functions>) by calling `getRuntimeContext().getMetricGroup()`. This method returns a `MetricGroup` object via which you can report a new single event.

###  Reporting single Event #

An `Event` represents something that happened in Flink at certain point of time, that will be reported to a `TraceReporter`. To report an `Event` you can use the `MetricGroup#addEvent(EventBuilder)` method.

Java


    public class MyClass {
        void doSomething() {
            // (...)
            metricGroup.addEvent(
                    Event.builder(MyClass.class, "SomeEvent")
                            .setObservedTsMillis(observedTs) // Optional
                            .setAttribute("foo", "bar")); // Optional
        }
    }


Python


    Currently reporting Events from Python is not supported.


##  Reporter #

For information on how to set up Flink’s event reporters please take a look at the [event reporters documentation](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/deployment/event_reporters/>).

##  System traces #

Flink reports events listed below.

The tables below generally feature 5 columns:

  * The “Scope” column describes what is that trace reported scope.

  * The “Name” column describes the name of the reported trace.

  * The “Attributes” column lists the names of all attributes that are reported with the given trace.

  * The “Description” column provides information as to what a given attribute is reporting.

Scope | Name | Severity | Attributes | Description
---|---|---|---|---
org.apache.flink.runtime.checkpoint.CheckpointStatsTracker | **CheckpointEvent** | **INFO**
observedTs | Timestamp when the checkpoint has finished.
checkpointId | Id of the checkpoint.
checkpointedSize | Size in bytes of checkpointed state during this checkpoint. Might be smaller than fullSize if incremental checkpoints are used.
fullSize | Full size in bytes of the referenced state by this checkpoint. Might be larger than checkpointSize if incremental checkpoints are used.
checkpointStatus | What was the state of this checkpoint: FAILED or COMPLETED.
checkpointType | Type of the checkpoint. For example: "Checkpoint", "Full Checkpoint" or "Terminate Savepoint" ...
isUnaligned | Whether checkpoint was aligned or unaligned.
org.apache.flink.runtime.jobmaster.JobMaster | **JobStatusChangeEvent** | **INFO**
observedTs | Timestamp when the job's status has changed.
newJobStatus | New job status that is being reported by this event.
org.apache.flink.runtime.scheduler.adaptive.JobFailureMetricReporter | **JobFailureEvent** | **INFO**
observedTs | Timestamp when the job has failed.
canRestart | (optional) Whether the failure is terminal.
isGlobalFailure | (optional) Whether the failure is global. Global failover requires all tasks to failver.
failureLabel.KEY | (optional) For every failure label attached to this failure with a given KEY, the value of that label is attached as an attribute value.
org.apache.flink.runtime.scheduler.metrics.AllSubTasksRunningOrFinishedStateTimeMetrics | **AllSubtasksStatusChangeEvent**(streaming jobs only) | **INFO**
observedTs | Timestamp when all subtasks reached given status.
status | **ALL_RUNNING_OR_FINISHED** means all subtasks are RUNNING or have already FINISHED
**NOT_ALL_RUNNING_OR_FINISHED** means at least one subtask has switched away from RUNNING or FINISHED, after previously **ALL_RUNNING_OR_FINISHED** being reported

__Back to top