**Fluss**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  Fluss Pipeline Connector #

The Fluss Pipeline connector can be used as the _Data Sink_ of the pipeline, and write data to [Fluss](<https://fluss.apache.org>). This document describes how to set up the Fluss Pipeline connector.

##  What can the connector do? #

  * Create table automatically if not exist
  * Data synchronization
  * Schema change synchronization (lenient mode)

##  How to create Pipeline #

The pipeline for reading data from MySQL and sink to Fluss can be defined as follows:


    source:
       type: mysql
       name: MySQL Source
       hostname: 127.0.0.1
       port: 3306
       username: admin
       password: pass
       tables: adb.\.*, bdb.user_table_[0-9]+, [app|web].order_\.*
       server-id: 5401-5404

    sink:
      type: fluss
      name: Fluss Sink
      bootstrap.servers: localhost:9123
      # Security-related properties for the Fluss client
      properties.client.security.protocol: sasl
      properties.client.security.sasl.mechanism: PLAIN
      properties.client.security.sasl.username: developer
      properties.client.security.sasl.password: developer-pass

    pipeline:
      name: MySQL to Fluss Pipeline
      parallelism: 2
      schema.change.behavior: LENIENT


##  Pipeline Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---
type | required | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be `'fluss'`.
name | optional | (none) | String | The name of the sink.
bootstrap.servers | required | (none) | String | The bootstrap servers for the Fluss sink connection.
bucket.key | optional | (none) | String | Specific the distribution policy of each Fluss table.Tables are separated by ';', and bucket keys are separated by ','. Format: database1.table1:key1,key2;database1.table2:key3. Data will be distributed to each bucket according to the hash value of bucket-key (It must be a subset of the primary keys excluding partition keys of the primary key table). If the table has a primary key and a bucket key is not specified, the bucket key will be used as primary key(excluding the partition key). If the table has no primary key and the bucket key is not specified, the data will be distributed to each bucket randomly.
bucket.num | optional | (none) | String | The number of buckets of each Fluss table.Tables are separated by ';'.Format: database1.table1:4;database1.table2:8.
properties.table.* | optional | (none) | String | Pass options of Fluss table to pipeline，See [Fluss table options](<https://fluss.apache.org/docs/engine-flink/options/#storage-options>).
properties.client.* | optional | (none) | String | Pass options of Fluss client to pipeline，See [Fluss client options](<https://fluss.apache.org/docs/engine-flink/options/#write-options>).

##  Usage Notes #

  * Support Fluss primary key table and log table.

  * For creating table automatically

    * There is no partition key
    * The number of buckets is controlled by `bucket.num`
    * The distribution keys are controlled by option `bucket.key`. For primary key table and a bucket key is not specified, the bucket key will be used as primary key(excluding the partition key). For log table has no primary key and the bucket key is not specified, the data will be distributed to each bucket randomly.
  * Supports schema change synchronization in `lenient` mode with `schema.change.behavior: lenient`. The following schema change events are supported:

    * **Add column** — new columns are appended to the Fluss table.
    * **Drop column** — the column is not physically removed in lenient mode. The drop operation is ignored, and subsequent writes will set the column value to null.
    * **Rename column** — in lenient mode, this is translated into an add-new-column + alter-old-column-type-to-nullable sequence.
    * **Alter column type** — not supported.

To enable schema change synchronization, configure the pipeline with `schema.change.behavior: lenient`. If you want to ignore all schema changes, use `schema.change.behavior: IGNORE`.

  * For data synchronization, the pipeline connector uses [Fluss Java Client](<https://fluss.apache.org/docs/apis/java-client/>) to write data to Fluss.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Flink CDC type | Fluss type | Note
---|---|---
TINYINT | TINYINT |
SMALLINT | SMALLINT |
INT | INT |
BIGINT | BIGINT |
FLOAT | FLOAT |
DOUBLE | DOUBLE |
DECIMAL(p, s) | DECIMAL(p, s) |
BOOLEAN | BOOLEAN |
DATE | DATE |
TIME | TIME |
TIMESTAMP | TIMESTAMP |
TIMESTAMP_LTZ | TIMESTAMP_LTZ |
CHAR(n) | CHAR(n) |
VARCHAR(n) | STRING |
BINARY(n) | BINARY(n) |
VARBINARY(N) | BYTES |
ARRAY | ARRAY | Element type is mapped recursively.
MAP | MAP | Key and value types are mapped recursively.
ROW | ROW | Field types are mapped recursively.

__Back to top