**Parquet**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/table/formats/parquet/>).

#  Parquet Format #

Format: Serialization Schema Format: Deserialization Schema

The [Apache Parquet](<https://parquet.apache.org/>) format allows to read and write Parquet data.

##  Dependencies #

In order to use the Parquet format the following dependencies are required for both projects using a build automation tool (such as Maven or SBT) and SQL Client with SQL JAR bundles.

Maven dependency | SQL Client |


    &ltdependency&gt
      &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
      &ltartifactId&gtflink-parquet&lt/artifactId&gt
      &ltversion&gt1.19.3&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!  | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-sql-parquet/1.19.3/flink-sql-parquet-1.19.3.jar>)
---|---

##  How to create a table with Parquet format #

Here is an example to create a table using Filesystem connector and Parquet format.


    CREATE TABLE user_behavior (
      user_id BIGINT,
      item_id BIGINT,
      category_id BIGINT,
      behavior STRING,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3),
      dt STRING
    ) PARTITIONED BY (dt) WITH (
     'connector' = 'filesystem',
     'path' = '/tmp/user_behavior',
     'format' = 'parquet'
    )


##  Format Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---

##### format

| required | (none) | String | Specify what format to use, here should be 'parquet'.

##### parquet.utc-timezone

| optional | false | Boolean | Use UTC timezone or local timezone to the conversion between epoch time and LocalDateTime. Hive 0.x/1.x/2.x use local timezone. But Hive 3.x use UTC timezone.

##### timestamp.time.unit

| optional | micros | String | Store parquet int64/LogicalTypes timestamps in this time unit, value is nanos/micros/millis.

##### write.int64.timestamp

| optional | false | Boolean | Write parquet timestamp as int64/LogicalTypes instead of int96/OriginalTypes. Note: Timestamp will be time zone agnostic (NEVER converted to a different time zone).

Parquet format also supports configuration from [ParquetOutputFormat](<https://www.javadoc.io/doc/org.apache.parquet/parquet-hadoop/1.10.0/org/apache/parquet/hadoop/ParquetOutputFormat.html>). For example, you can configure `parquet.compression=GZIP` to enable gzip compression.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Currently, Parquet format type mapping is compatible with Apache Hive, but by default not with Apache Spark:

  * Timestamp: mapping timestamp type to int96 whatever the precision is.
  * Spark compatibility requires int64 via config option `write.int64.timestamp` (see above).
  * Decimal: mapping decimal type to fixed length byte array according to the precision.

The following table lists the type mapping from Flink type to Parquet type.

Flink Data Type | Parquet type | Parquet logical type
---|---|---
CHAR / VARCHAR / STRING | BINARY | UTF8
BOOLEAN | BOOLEAN |
BINARY / VARBINARY | BINARY |
DECIMAL | FIXED_LEN_BYTE_ARRAY | DECIMAL
TINYINT | INT32 | INT_8
SMALLINT | INT32 | INT_16
INT | INT32 |
BIGINT | INT64 |
FLOAT | FLOAT |
DOUBLE | DOUBLE |
DATE | INT32 | DATE
TIME | INT32 | TIME_MILLIS
TIMESTAMP | INT96 (or INT64) |
ARRAY | - | LIST
MAP | - | MAP
ROW | - | STRUCT