**Traces**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/ops/traces/>).

#  Traces #

Flink exposes a tracing system that allows gathering and exposing traces to external systems.

##  Reporting traces #

You can access the tracing system from any user function that extends [RichFunction](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/dev/datastream/user_defined_functions/#rich-functions>) by calling `getRuntimeContext().getMetricGroup()`. This method returns a `MetricGroup` object via which you can report a new single trace with tree of spans.

###  Reporting single Span #

A `Span` represents some process that happened in Flink at certain point of time for a certain duration, that will be reported to a `TraceReporter`. To report a `Span` you can use the `MetricGroup#addSpan(SpanBuilder)` method.

Currently, we support traces with a single tree of spans, but all the children spans have to be reported all at once in one `MetricGroup#addSpan` call. You can not report child or parent spans independently.

Java


    public class MyClass {
        void doSomething() {
            // (...)
            metricGroup.addSpan(
                Span.builder(MyClass.class, "SomeAction")
                    .setStartTsMillis(startTs) // Optional
                    .setEndTsMillis(endTs) // Optional
                    .setAttribute("foo", "bar") // Optional
                    .addChild(Span.builder(MyClass.class, "ChildAction") // Optional
                    .addChildren(List.of(
                        Span.builder(MyClass.class, "AnotherChildAction")); // Optional
        }
    }


Python


    Currently reporting Spans from Python is not supported.


##  Reporter #

For information on how to set up Flink’s trace reporters please take a look at the [trace reporters documentation](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/deployment/trace_reporters/>).

##  System traces #

Flink reports traces listed below.

The tables below generally feature 5 columns:

  * The “Scope” column describes what is that trace reported scope.

  * The “Name” column describes the name of the reported trace.

  * The “Attributes” column lists the names of all attributes that are reported with the given trace.

  * The “Description” column provides information as to what a given attribute is reporting.

###  Checkpointing and initialization #

Flink reports a single span trace for the whole checkpoint and job initialization events once that event reaches a terminal state: COMPLETED or FAILED.

Scope | Name | Attributes | Description
---|---|---|---
org.apache.flink.runtime.checkpoint.CheckpointStatsTracker | **Checkpoint** | startTs | Timestamp when the checkpoint has started.
endTs | Timestamp when the checkpoint has finished.
checkpointId | Id of the checkpoint.
checkpointedSize | Size in bytes of checkpointed state during this checkpoint. Might be smaller than fullSize if incremental checkpoints are used.
fullSize | Full size in bytes of the referenced state by this checkpoint. Might be larger than checkpointSize if incremental checkpoints are used.
checkpointStatus | What was the state of this checkpoint: FAILED or COMPLETED.
checkpointType | Type of the checkpoint. For example: "Checkpoint", "Full Checkpoint" or "Terminate Savepoint" ...
isUnaligned | Whether checkpoint was aligned or unaligned.
**JobInitialization** | startTs | Timestamp when the job initialization has started.
endTs | Timestamp when the job initialization has finished.
checkpointId (optional) | Id of the checkpoint that the job recovered from (if any).
fullSize | Full size in bytes of the referenced state by the checkpoint that was used during recovery (if any).
(Max/Sum)MailboxStartDurationMs | The aggregated (max and sum) across all subtasks duration between subtask being created until all classes and objects of that subtask are initialize.
(Max/Sum)ReadOutputDataDurationMs | The aggregated (max and sum) across all subtasks duration of reading unaligned checkpoint's output buffers.
(Max/Sum)InitializeStateDurationMs | The aggregated (max and sum) across all subtasks duration to initialize a state backend (including state files download time)
(Max/Sum)GateRestoreDurationMs | The aggregated (max and sum) across all subtasks duration of reading unaligned checkpoint's input buffers.
(Max/Sum)DownloadStateDurationMs

(optional - currently only supported by RocksDB Incremental) | The aggregated (max and sum) duration across all subtasks of downloading state files from the DFS.
(Max/Sum)RestoreStateDurationMs

(optional - currently only supported by RocksDB Incremental) | The aggregated (max and sum) duration across all subtasks of restoring the state backend from fully localized state, i.e. after all remote state was downloaded.
(Max/Sum)RestoredStateSizeBytes.[location] | The aggregated (max and sum) across all subtasks size of restored state by location. Possible locations are defined in Enum StateObjectSizeStatsCollector as LOCAL_MEMORY, LOCAL_DISK, REMOTE, UNKNOWN.
(Max/Sum)RestoreAsyncCompactionDurationMs

(optional - currently only supported by RocksDB Incremental) | The aggregated (max and sum) duration across all subtasks for async compaction after incremental restore.

__Back to top