**Kinesis**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/datastream/kinesis/>).

#  Amazon Kinesis Data Streams Connector #

The Kinesis connector allows users to read from and write to [Amazon Kinesis Data Streams](<http://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/streams/>).

##  Dependency #

To use this connector, add the below dependency to your project:


    &ltdependency&gt
        &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
        &ltartifactId&gtflink-connector-aws-kinesis-streams&lt/artifactId&gt
        &ltversion&gt5.1.0-1.20&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!

For use in PyFlink jobs, use the following dependency:

In order to use the in PyFlink jobs, the following dependencies are required:

Version | PyFlink JAR | flink-connector-kinesis | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-sql-connector-kinesis/5.1.0-1.20/flink-sql-connector-kinesis-5.1.0-1.20.jar>)
---|---
See [Python dependency management](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/python/dependency_management/#jar-dependencies>) for more details on how to use JARs in PyFlink.

##  Kinesis Streams Source #

The `KinesisStreamsSource` is an exactly-once, parallel streaming data source based on the [FLIP-27 source interface](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-27%3A+Refactor+Source+Interface>). The source subscribes to a single Amazon Kinesis Data stream and reads events, maintaining order within a specific Kinesis `partitionId`. See Record ordering for more details. The `KinesisStreamsSource` will discover the shards of the stream and start reading from each eligible shard in parallel, depending on the parallelism of the operator. For more details on selecting the appropriate parallelism, see Parallelism and Number of Shards. It also transparently handles discovery of new shards of the Kinesis Data stream if resharding of streams occurs while the job is running. For more details, see section on Shard Discovery.

> Note: Before consuming data, ensure that the Kinesis Data Stream is created with `ACTIVE` status on the Amazon Kinesis Data Streams console.

The `KinesisStreamsSource` provides a fluent builder to construct an instance of the `KinesisStreamsSource`. The code snippet below illustrates how to do so.

Java


    // Configure the KinesisStreamsSource
    Configuration sourceConfig = new Configuration();
    sourceConfig.set(KinesisSourceConfigOptions.STREAM_INITIAL_POSITION, KinesisSourceConfigOptions.InitialPosition.TRIM_HORIZON); // This is optional, by default connector will read from LATEST

    // Create a new KinesisStreamsSource to read from specified Kinesis Stream.
    KinesisStreamsSource<String> kdsSource =
            KinesisStreamsSource.<String>builder()
                    .setStreamArn("arn:aws:kinesis:us-east-1:123456789012:stream/test-stream")
                    .setSourceConfig(sourceConfig)
                    .setDeserializationSchema(new SimpleStringSchema())
                    .setKinesisShardAssigner(ShardAssignerFactory.uniformShardAssigner()) // This is optional, by default uniformShardAssigner will be used.
                    .build();

    StreamExecutionEnvironment env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();

    // Specify watermarking strategy and the name of the Kinesis Source operator.
    // Specify return type using TypeInformation.
    // Specify UID of operator in line with Flink best practice.
    DataStream<String> kinesisRecordsWithEventTimeWatermarks = env.fromSource(kdsSource, WatermarkStrategy.<String>forMonotonousTimestamps().withIdleness(Duration.ofSeconds(1)), "Kinesis source")
            .returns(TypeInformation.of(String.class))
            .uid("custom-uid");


Scala


    val sourceConfig = new Configuration()
    sourceConfig.set(KinesisSourceConfigOptions.STREAM_INITIAL_POSITION, KinesisSourceConfigOptions.InitialPosition.TRIM_HORIZON) // This is optional, by default connector will read from LATEST

    val env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment()

    val kdsSource = KinesisStreamsSource.builder[String]()
                .setStreamArn("arn:aws:kinesis:us-east-1:123456789012:stream/test-stream")
                .setSourceConfig(sourceConfig)
                .setDeserializationSchema(new SimpleStringSchema())
                .setKinesisShardAssigner(ShardAssignerFactory.uniformShardAssigner()) // This is optional, by default uniformShardAssigner will be used.
                .build()

    val kinesisEvents = env.fromSource(kdsSource, WatermarkStrategy.forMonotonousTimestamps().withIdleness(Duration.ofSeconds(1)), "Kinesis source")
                .uid("custom-uid")