**JDBC**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/table/jdbc/>).

#  JDBC SQL Connector #

Scan Source: Bounded Lookup Source: Sync Mode Sink: Batch Sink: Streaming Append & Upsert Mode

The JDBC connector allows for reading data from and writing data into any relational databases with a JDBC driver. This document describes how to setup the JDBC connector to run SQL queries against relational databases.

The JDBC sink operate in upsert mode for exchange UPDATE/DELETE messages with the external system if a primary key is defined on the DDL, otherwise, it operates in append mode and doesn’t support to consume UPDATE/DELETE messages.

##  Dependencies #

When using the JDBC connector, `flink-connector-jdbc-core`, `flink-connector-jdbc-${database}` and the JDBC driver needs to be added to the dependencies.

Only available for stable versions.

The `flink-connector-jdbc-${database}` dependency and a driver dependency are required to connect to a specified database.

The `flink-connector-jdbc-${database}` dependencies are as follows, whose version should be the same as the `flink-connector-jdbc-core`:

Database | Group Id | Artifact Id | JAR
---|---|---|---
MySQL | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-mysql` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-mysql/>)
Oracle | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-oracle` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-oracle/>)
PostgreSQL | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-postgres` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-postgres/>)
Derby | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-core` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-core/>)
SQL Server | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-sqlserver` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-sqlserver/>)
CrateDB | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-cratedb` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-cratedb/>)
Db2 | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-db2` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-db2/>)
Trino | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-trino` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-trino/>)
OceanBase | `org.apache.flink` | `flink-connector-jdbc-oceanbase` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-connector-jdbc-oceanbase/>)

Here are drivers currently supported:

Driver | Group Id | Artifact Id | JAR
---|---|---|---
MySQL | `mysql` | `mysql-connector-java` | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/mysql/mysql-connector-java/>)
Oracle | `com.oracle.database.jdbc` | `ojdbc8` | [Download](<https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.oracle.database.jdbc/ojdbc8>)
PostgreSQL | `org.postgresql` | `postgresql` | [Download](<https://jdbc.postgresql.org/download/>)
Derby | `org.apache.derby` | `derby` | [Download](<http://db.apache.org/derby/derby_downloads.html>)
SQL Server | `com.microsoft.sqlserver` | `mssql-jdbc` | [Download](<https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/jdbc/download-microsoft-jdbc-driver-for-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver16>)
CrateDB | `io.crate` | `crate-jdbc` | [Download](<https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/crate/crate-jdbc/>)
Db2 | `com.ibm.db2.jcc` | `db2jcc` | [Download](<https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/download-db2-fix-packs-version-db2-linux-unix-and-windows>)
Trino | `io.trino` | `trino-jdbc` | [Download](<https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/io/trino/trino-jdbc/>)
OceanBase | `com.oceanbase` | `oceanbase-client` | [Download](<https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/oceanbase/oceanbase-client/>)

JDBC connector and drivers are not part of Flink’s binary distribution. See how to link with them for cluster execution [here](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/dev/configuration/overview/>).

##  How to create a JDBC table #

The JDBC table can be defined as following:


    -- register a MySQL table 'users' in Flink SQL
    CREATE TABLE MyUserTable (
      id BIGINT,
      name STRING,
      age INT,
      status BOOLEAN,
      PRIMARY KEY (id) NOT ENFORCED
    ) WITH (
       'connector' = 'jdbc',
       'url' = 'jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/mydatabase',
       'table-name' = 'users'
    );

    -- write data into the JDBC table from the other table "T"
    INSERT INTO MyUserTable
    SELECT id, name, age, status FROM T;

    -- scan data from the JDBC table
    SELECT id, name, age, status FROM MyUserTable;

    -- temporal join the JDBC table as a dimension table
    SELECT * FROM myTopic
    LEFT JOIN MyUserTable FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF myTopic.proctime
    ON myTopic.key = MyUserTable.id;


##  Connector Options #

Option | Required | Forwarded | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---|---

##### connector

| required | no | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be `'jdbc'`.

##### url

| required | yes | (none) | String | The JDBC database url.

##### table-name

| required | yes | (none) | String | The name of JDBC table to connect.

##### driver

| optional | yes | (none) | String | The class name of the JDBC driver to use to connect to this URL, if not set, it will automatically be derived from the URL.

##### compatible-mode

| optional | yes | (none) | String | The compatible mode of database.

##### username

| optional | yes | (none) | String | The JDBC user name. `'username'` and `'password'` must both be specified if any of them is specified.

##### password

| optional | yes | (none) | String | The JDBC password.

##### connection.max-retry-timeout

| optional | yes | 60s | Duration | Maximum timeout between retries. The timeout should be in second granularity and shouldn't be smaller than 1 second.

##### scan.partition.column

| optional | no | (none) | String | The column name used for partitioning the input. See the following Partitioned Scan section for more details.

##### scan.partition.num

| optional | no | (none) | Integer | The number of partitions.

##### scan.partition.lower-bound

| optional | no | (none) | Integer | The smallest value of the first partition.

##### scan.partition.upper-bound

| optional | no | (none) | Integer | The largest value of the last partition.

##### scan.fetch-size

| optional | yes | 0 | Integer | The number of rows that should be fetched from the database when reading per round trip. If the value specified is zero, then the hint is ignored.

##### scan.auto-commit

| optional | yes | true | Boolean | Sets the [auto-commit](<https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/jdbc/basics/transactions.html#commit_transactions>) flag on the JDBC driver, which determines whether each statement is committed in a transaction automatically. Some JDBC drivers, specifically [Postgres](<https://jdbc.postgresql.org/documentation/head/query.html#query-with-cursor>), may require this to be set to false in order to stream results.

##### lookup.cache

| optional | yes | NONE | EnumPossible values: NONE, PARTIAL | The cache strategy for the lookup table. Currently supports NONE (no caching) and PARTIAL (caching entries on lookup operation in external database).

##### lookup.partial-cache.max-rows

| optional | yes | (none) | Long | The max number of rows of lookup cache, over this value, the oldest rows will be expired. "lookup.cache" must be set to "PARTIAL" to use this option. See the following Lookup Cache section for more details.

##### lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-write

| optional | yes | (none) | Duration | The max time to live for each rows in lookup cache after writing into the cache. "lookup.cache" must be set to "PARTIAL" to use this option. See the following Lookup Cache section for more details.

##### lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-access

| optional | yes | (none) | Duration | The max time to live for each rows in lookup cache after accessing the entry in the cache. "lookup.cache" must be set to "PARTIAL" to use this option. See the following Lookup Cache section for more details.

##### lookup.partial-cache.cache-missing-key

| optional | yes | true | Boolean | Whether to store an empty value into the cache if the lookup key doesn't match any rows in the table. "lookup.cache" must be set to "PARTIAL" to use this option.

##### lookup.max-retries

| optional | yes | 3 | Integer | The max retry times if lookup database failed.

##### filter.handling.policy

| optional | no | always | Enum Possible values: always, never | Fine-grained configuration to control filter push down. Supported policies are:

  * `always`: Always push the supported filters to database.
  * `never`: Never push any filters to database.



##### sink.buffer-flush.max-rows

| optional | yes | 100 | Integer | The max size of buffered records before flush. Can be set to zero to disable it.

##### sink.buffer-flush.interval

| optional | yes | 1s | Duration | The flush interval mills, over this time, asynchronous threads will flush data. Can be set to `'0'` to disable it. Note, `'sink.buffer-flush.max-rows'` can be set to `'0'` with the flush interval set allowing for complete async processing of buffered actions.

##### sink.max-retries

| optional | yes | 3 | Integer | The max retry times if writing records to database failed.

##### sink.parallelism

| optional | no | (none) | Integer | Defines the parallelism of the JDBC sink operator. By default, the parallelism is determined by the framework using the same parallelism of the upstream chained operator.

###  Deprecated Options #

These deprecated options has been replaced by new options listed above and will be removed eventually. Please consider using new options first.

Option | Required | Forwarded | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---|---

##### lookup.cache.max-rows

| optional | yes | (none) | Integer | Please set "lookup.cache" = "PARTIAL" and use "lookup.partial-cache.max-rows" instead.

##### lookup.cache.ttl

| optional | yes | (none) | Duration | Please set "lookup.cache" = "PARTIAL" and use "lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-write" instead.

##### lookup.cache.caching-missing-key

| optional | yes | true | Boolean | Please set "lookup.cache" = "PARTIAL" and use "lookup.partial-cache.cache-missing-key" instead.

##  Features #

###  Key handling #

Flink uses the primary key that was defined in DDL when writing data to external databases. The connector operates in upsert mode if the primary key was defined, otherwise, the connector operates in append mode.

In upsert mode, Flink will insert a new row or update the existing row according to the primary key, Flink can ensure the idempotence in this way. To guarantee the output result is as expected, it’s recommended to define primary key for the table and make sure the primary key is one of the unique key sets or primary key of the underlying database table. In append mode, Flink will interpret all records as INSERT messages, the INSERT operation may fail if a primary key or unique constraint violation happens in the underlying database.

See [CREATE TABLE DDL](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/dev/table/sql/create/#create-table>) for more details about PRIMARY KEY syntax.

###  Partitioned Scan #

To accelerate reading data in parallel `Source` task instances, Flink provides partitioned scan feature for JDBC table.

All the following scan partition options must all be specified if any of them is specified. They describe how to partition the table when reading in parallel from multiple tasks. The `scan.partition.column` must be a numeric, date, or timestamp column from the table in question. Notice that `scan.partition.lower-bound` and `scan.partition.upper-bound` are used to decide the partition stride and filter the rows in table. If it is a batch job, it also doable to get the max and min value first before submitting the flink job.

  * `scan.partition.column`: The column name used for partitioning the input.
  * `scan.partition.num`: The number of partitions.
  * `scan.partition.lower-bound`: The smallest value of the first partition.
  * `scan.partition.upper-bound`: The largest value of the last partition.

###  Lookup Cache #

JDBC connector can be used in temporal join as a lookup source (aka. dimension table). Currently, only sync lookup mode is supported.

By default, lookup cache is not enabled. You can enable it by setting `lookup.cache` to `PARTIAL`.

The lookup cache is used to improve performance of temporal join the JDBC connector. By default, lookup cache is not enabled, so all the requests are sent to external database. When lookup cache is enabled, each process (i.e. TaskManager) will hold a cache. Flink will lookup the cache first, and only send requests to external database when cache missing, and update cache with the rows returned. The oldest rows in cache will be expired when the cache hit to the max cached rows `lookup.partial-cache.max-rows` or when the row exceeds the max time to live specified by `lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-write` or `lookup.partial-cache.expire-after-access`. The cached rows might not be the latest, users can tune expiration options to a smaller value to have a better fresh data, but this may increase the number of requests send to database. So this is a balance between throughput and correctness.

By default, flink will cache the empty query result for a Primary key, you can toggle the behaviour by setting `lookup.partial-cache.cache-missing-key` to false.

###  Idempotent Writes #

JDBC sink will use upsert semantics rather than plain INSERT statements if primary key is defined in DDL. Upsert semantics refer to atomically adding a new row or updating the existing row if there is a unique constraint violation in the underlying database, which provides idempotence.

If there are failures, the Flink job will recover and re-process from last successful checkpoint, which can lead to re-processing messages during recovery. The upsert mode is highly recommended as it helps avoid constraint violations or duplicate data if records need to be re-processed.

Aside from failure recovery, the source topic may also naturally contain multiple records over time with the same primary key, making upserts desirable.

As there is no standard syntax for upsert, the following table describes the database-specific DML that is used.

Database | Upsert Grammar
---|---
MySQL | INSERT .. ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE ..
Oracle | MERGE INTO .. USING (..) ON (..)
WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE SET (..)
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT (..)
VALUES (..)
PostgreSQL | INSERT .. ON CONFLICT .. DO UPDATE SET ..
MS SQL Server | MERGE INTO .. USING (..) ON (..)
WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE SET (..)
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT (..)
VALUES (..)
Db2 | MERGE INTO .. AS TARGET USING TABLE (VALUES (..)) AS SOURCE (..) ON (..)
WHEN MATCHED THEN UPDATE SET ..
WHEN NOT MATCHED THEN INSERT (..)
VALUES (..)

##  JDBC Catalog #

The `JdbcCatalog` enables users to connect Flink to relational databases over JDBC protocol.

Currently, there are following JDBC catalog implementations: Postgres Catalog, MySQL Catalog, CrateDB Catalog and OceanBase Catalog. They support the following catalog methods. Other methods are currently not supported.


    databaseExists(String databaseName);
    listDatabases();
    getDatabase(String databaseName);
    listTables(String databaseName);
    getTable(ObjectPath tablePath);
    tableExists(ObjectPath tablePath);


Other `Catalog` methods are currently not supported.

###  Usage of JDBC Catalog #

The section mainly describes how to create and use a JDBC Catalog. Please refer to Dependencies section for how to setup a JDBC connector and the corresponding driver.

The JDBC catalog supports the following options:

  * `name`: required, name of the catalog.
  * `default-database`: required, default database to connect to.
  * `username`: required, username of database account.
  * `password`: required, password of the account.
  * `base-url`: required (should not contain the database name)
    * for Postgres Catalog this should be `"jdbc:postgresql://<ip>:<port>"`
    * for MySQL Catalog this should be `"jdbc:mysql://<ip>:<port>"`
    * for OceanBase Catalog this should be `jdbc:oceanbase://<ip>:<port>`
  * `compatible-mode`: optional, the compatible mode of database.

SQL


    CREATE CATALOG my_catalog WITH(
        'type' = 'jdbc',
        'default-database' = '...',
        'username' = '...',
        'password' = '...',
        'base-url' = '...'
    );

    USE CATALOG my_catalog;


Java


    EnvironmentSettings settings = EnvironmentSettings.inStreamingMode();
    TableEnvironment tableEnv = TableEnvironment.create(settings);

    String name            = "my_catalog";
    String defaultDatabase = "mydb";
    String username        = "...";
    String password        = "...";
    String baseUrl         = "..."

    JdbcCatalog catalog = new JdbcCatalog(name, defaultDatabase, username, password, baseUrl);
    tableEnv.registerCatalog("my_catalog", catalog);

    // set the JdbcCatalog as the current catalog of the session
    tableEnv.useCatalog("my_catalog");


Scala


    val settings = EnvironmentSettings.inStreamingMode()
    val tableEnv = TableEnvironment.create(settings)

    val name            = "my_catalog"
    val defaultDatabase = "mydb"
    val username        = "..."
    val password        = "..."
    val baseUrl         = "..."

    val catalog = new JdbcCatalog(name, defaultDatabase, username, password, baseUrl)
    tableEnv.registerCatalog("my_catalog", catalog)

    // set the JdbcCatalog as the current catalog of the session
    tableEnv.useCatalog("my_catalog")


Python


    from pyflink.table.catalog import JdbcCatalog

    environment_settings = EnvironmentSettings.in_streaming_mode()
    t_env = TableEnvironment.create(environment_settings)

    name = "my_catalog"
    default_database = "mydb"
    username = "..."
    password = "..."
    base_url = "..."

    catalog = JdbcCatalog(name, default_database, username, password, base_url)
    t_env.register_catalog("my_catalog", catalog)

    # set the JdbcCatalog as the current catalog of the session
    t_env.use_catalog("my_catalog")


YAML


    execution:
        ...
        current-catalog: my_catalog  # set the target JdbcCatalog as the current catalog of the session
        current-database: mydb

    catalogs:
       - name: my_catalog
         type: jdbc
         default-database: mydb
         username: ...
         password: ...
         base-url: ...


###  JDBC Catalog for PostgreSQL #

####  PostgreSQL Metaspace Mapping #

PostgreSQL has an additional namespace as `schema` besides database. A Postgres instance can have multiple databases, each database can have multiple schemas with a default one named “public”, each schema can have multiple tables. In Flink, when querying tables registered by Postgres catalog, users can use either `schema_name.table_name` or just `table_name`. The `schema_name` is optional and defaults to “public”.

Therefore, the metaspace mapping between Flink Catalog and Postgres is as following:

Flink Catalog Metaspace Structure | Postgres Metaspace Structure
---|---
catalog name (defined in Flink only) | N/A
database name | database name
table name | [schema_name.]table_name

The full path of Postgres table in Flink should be `"<catalog>.<db>.`<schema.table>`"` if schema is specified, note the `<schema.table>` should be escaped.

Here are some examples to access Postgres tables:


    -- scan table 'test_table' of 'public' schema (i.e. the default schema), the schema name can be omitted
    SELECT * FROM mypg.mydb.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM mydb.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM test_table;

    -- scan table 'test_table2' of 'custom_schema' schema,
    -- the custom schema can not be omitted and must be escaped with table.
    SELECT * FROM mypg.mydb.`custom_schema.test_table2`
    SELECT * FROM mydb.`custom_schema.test_table2`;
    SELECT * FROM `custom_schema.test_table2`;


###  JDBC Catalog for MySQL #

####  MySQL Metaspace Mapping #

The databases in a MySQL instance are at the same mapping level as the databases under the catalog registered with MySQL Catalog. A MySQL instance can have multiple databases, each database can have multiple tables. In Flink, when querying tables registered by MySQL catalog, users can use either `database.table_name` or just `table_name`. The default value is the default database specified when MySQL Catalog was created.

Therefore, the metaspace mapping between Flink Catalog and MySQL Catalog is as following:

Flink Catalog Metaspace Structure | MySQL Metaspace Structure
---|---
catalog name (defined in Flink only) | N/A
database name | database name
table name | table_name

The full path of MySQL table in Flink should be `"`<catalog>`.`<db>`.`<table>`"`.

Here are some examples to access MySQL tables:


    -- scan table 'test_table', the default database is 'mydb'.
    SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.mydb.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM mydb.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM test_table;

    -- scan table 'test_table' with the given database.
    SELECT * FROM mysql_catalog.given_database.test_table2;
    SELECT * FROM given_database.test_table2;


###  JDBC Catalog for CrateDB #

####  CrateDB Metaspace Mapping #

CrateDB is similar to PostgreSQL, but it has only on database which defaults to `crate`. It has an additional namespace as `schema`, a CrateDB instance can have multiple schemas with a default one named “doc”, each schema can have multiple tables. In Flink, when querying tables registered by CrateDB catalog, users can use either `schema_name.table_name` or just `table_name`. The `schema_name` is optional and defaults to `doc`.

Therefore, the metaspace mapping between Flink Catalog and CrateDB is as following:

Flink Catalog Metaspace Structure | CrateDB Metaspace Structure
---|---
catalog name (defined in Flink only) | N/A
database name | database name (always `crate`)
table name | [schema_name.]table_name

The full path of CrateDB table in Flink should be `"<catalog>.<db>.`<schema.table>`"` if schema is specified, note the `<schema.table>` should be escaped.

Here are some examples to access CrateDB tables:


    -- scan table 'test_table' of 'doc' schema (i.e. the default schema), the schema name can be omitted
    SELECT * FROM mycatalog.crate.doc.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM crate.doc.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM doc.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM test_table;

    -- scan table 'test_table2' of 'custom_schema' schema,
    -- the custom schema can not be omitted and must be escaped with table.
    SELECT * FROM mycatalog.crate.`custom_schema.test_table2`
    SELECT * FROM crate.`custom_schema.test_table2`;
    SELECT * FROM `custom_schema.test_table2`;


###  JDBC Catalog for OceanBase #

####  OceanBase Metaspace Mapping #

OceanBase database supports multiple tenant management, and each tenant can work at MySQL compatible mode or Oracle compatible mode. On MySQL mode of OceanBase, there are databases and tables but no schema in one tenant, these objects just like databases and tables in the MySQL database. On Oracle mode of OceanBase, there are schemas and tables but no database in one tenant, these objects just like schemas and tables in the Oracle database.

In Flink, when querying tables registered by OceanBase Catalog, users can use either `database.table_name` or just `table_name` on OceanBase MySQL mode, or use either `schema.table_name` or just `table_name` on OceanBase Oracle mode.

Therefore, the metaspace mapping between Flink Catalog and OceanBase is as following:

Flink Catalog Metaspace Structure | OceanBase Metaspace Structure (MySQL Mode) | OceanBase Metaspace Structure (Oracle Mode)
---|---|---
catalog name (defined in Flink only) | N/A | N/A
database name | database name | schema name
table name | table name | table name

The full path of OceanBase table in Flink should be “`<catalog>`.`<db or schema>`.`<table>`”.

Here are some examples to access OceanBase tables:


    -- scan table 'test_table', the default database or schema is 'mydb'.
    SELECT * FROM oceanbase_catalog.mydb.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM mydb.test_table;
    SELECT * FROM test_table;

    -- scan table 'test_table' with the given database or schema.
    SELECT * FROM oceanbase_catalog.given_database.test_table2;
    SELECT * FROM given_database.test_table2;


##  Data Type Mapping #

Flink supports connect to several databases which uses dialect like MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, CrateDB, Derby, SQL Server, Db2 and OceanBase. The Derby dialect usually used for testing purpose. The field data type mappings from relational databases data types to Flink SQL data types are listed in the following table, the mapping table can help define JDBC table in Flink easily.

[MySQL type](<https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/data-types.html>) | [Oracle type](<https://docs.oracle.com/database/121/SQLRF/sql_elements001.htm#SQLRF30020>) | [PostgreSQL type](<https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/datatype.html>) | [CrateDB type](<https://crate.io/docs/crate/reference/en/master/general/ddl/data-types.html>) | [SQL Server type](<https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/t-sql/data-types/data-types-transact-sql?view=sql-server-ver16>) | [Db2](<https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/db2-for-zos/12?topic=columns-data-types>) | [Trino type](<https://trino.io/docs/current/language/types.html>) | [OceanBase MySQL mode type](<https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001106898>) | [OceanBase Oracle mode type](<https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001107076>) | [Flink SQL type](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/dev/table/types/>)
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---
`TINYINT` |  |  |  | `TINYINT` |  | `TINYINT` | `TINYINT` |  | `TINYINT`
`SMALLINT`
`TINYINT UNSIGNED` |  |  `SMALLINT`
`INT2`
`SMALLSERIAL`
`SERIAL2` |  `SMALLINT` `SHORT` | `SMALLINT` | `SMALLINT` | `SMALLINT` |  `SMALLINT`
`TINYINT UNSIGNED` |  | `SMALLINT`
`INT`
`MEDIUMINT`
`SMALLINT UNSIGNED` |  |  `INTEGER`
`SERIAL` |  `INTEGER`
`INT` | `INT` | `INTEGER` | `INTEGER` |  `INT`
`MEDIUMINT`
`SMALLINT UNSIGNED` |  | `INT`
`BIGINT`
`INT UNSIGNED` |  |  `BIGINT`
`BIGSERIAL` |  `BIGINT`
`LONG` | `BIGINT` |  | `BIGINT` |  `BIGINT`
`INT UNSIGNED` |  | `BIGINT`
`BIGINT UNSIGNED` |  |  |  |  |  |  | `BIGINT UNSIGNED` |  | `DECIMAL(20, 0)`
`FLOAT` |  `BINARY_FLOAT` |  `REAL`
`FLOAT4` |  `REAL`
`FLOAT` | `REAL` | `REAL` | `FLOAT` | `FLOAT` |  `BINARY_FLOAT` | `FLOAT`
`DOUBLE`
`DOUBLE PRECISION` | `BINARY_DOUBLE` |  `FLOAT8`
`DOUBLE PRECISION` |  `DOUBLE`
`DOUBLE PRECISION` | `FLOAT` | `DOUBLE` | `DOUBLE` | `DOUBLE` | `BINARY_DOUBLE` | `DOUBLE`
`NUMERIC(p, s)`
`DECIMAL(p, s)` |  `SMALLINT`
`FLOAT(s)`
`DOUBLE PRECISION`
`REAL`
`NUMBER(p, s)` |  `NUMERIC(p, s)`
`DECIMAL(p, s)` | `NUMERIC(p, s)` | `DECIMAL(p, s)` |  `NUMERIC(p, s)` `DECIMAL(p, s)` | `DECIMAL(p, s)` |  `NUMERIC(p, s)`
`DECIMAL(p, s)` |  `FLOAT(s)`
`NUMBER(p, s)` | `DECIMAL(p, s)`
`BOOLEAN`
`TINYINT(1)` |  | `BOOLEAN` | `BOOLEAN` | `BIT` | `BOOLEAN` |  |  `BOOLEAN`
`TINYINT(1)` |  | `BOOLEAN`
`DATE` | `DATE` | `DATE` | `DATE` (only in expressions - not stored type) | `DATE` | `DATE` | `DATE` | `DATE` | `DATE` | `DATE`
`TIME [(p)]` | `DATE` | `TIME [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]` | `TIME` (only in expressions - not stored type) | `TIME(0)` | `TIME` | `TIME_WITHOUT_TIME_ZONE` | `TIME [(p)]` | `DATE` | `TIME [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]`
`DATETIME [(p)]` | `TIMESTAMP [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]` | `TIMESTAMP [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]` | `TIMESTAMP [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]` |  `DATETIME` `DATETIME2` | `TIMESTAMP [(p)]` | `TIMESTAMP_WITHOUT_TIME_ZONE` | `DATETIME [(p)]` | `TIMESTAMP [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]` | `TIMESTAMP [(p)] [WITHOUT TIMEZONE]`
`CHAR(n)`
`VARCHAR(n)`
`TEXT` |  `CHAR(n)`
`VARCHAR(n)`
`CLOB` |  `CHAR(n)`
`CHARACTER(n)`
`VARCHAR(n)`
`CHARACTER VARYING(n)`
`TEXT` |  `CHAR(n)`
`CHARACTER(n)`
`VARCHAR(n)`
`CHARACTER VARYING(n)`
`TEXT` `STRING` |  `CHAR(n)`
`NCHAR(n)`
`VARCHAR(n)`
`NVARCHAR(n)`
`TEXT`
`NTEXT` |  `VARCHAR(n)`
`CHAR [(p)]` |  `CHAR` `VARCHAR` |  `CHAR(n)`
`VARCHAR(n)`
`TEXT` |  `CHAR(n)`
`NCHAR(n)`
`VARCHAR2(n)`
`CLOB` | `STRING`
`BINARY`
`VARBINARY`
`BLOB` |  `RAW(s)`
`BLOB` | `BYTEA` |  |  `BINARY(n)`
`VARBINARY(n)`
|  | `VARBINARY` |  `BINARY`
`VARBINARY`
`BLOB` |  `RAW(s)`
`BLOB` | `BYTES`
|  | `ARRAY` | `ARRAY` |  |  | `ARRAY` |  |  | `ARRAY`

__Back to top