**OpenAI**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/models/openai/>).

#  OpenAI #

The OpenAI Model Function allows Flink SQL to call [OpenAI API](<https://platform.openai.com/docs/overview>) for inference tasks.

##  Overview #

The function supports calling remote OpenAI model services via Flink SQL for prediction/inference tasks. Currently, the following tasks are supported:

  * [Chat Completions](<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat>): generate a model response from a list of messages comprising a conversation.
  * [Embeddings](<https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/embeddings>): get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.

##  Usage examples #

The following example creates a chat completions model and uses it to predict sentiment labels for movie reviews.

First, create the chat completions model with the following SQL statement:


    CREATE MODEL ai_analyze_sentiment
    INPUT (`input` STRING)
    OUTPUT (`content` STRING)
    WITH (
        'provider'='openai',
        'endpoint'='https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions',
        'api-key' = '<YOUR KEY>',
        'model'='gpt-3.5-turbo',
        'system-prompt' = 'Classify the text below into one of the following labels: [positive, negative, neutral, mixed]. Output only the label.'
    );


Suppose the following data is stored in a table named `movie_comment`, and the prediction result is to be stored in a table named `print_sink`:


    CREATE TEMPORARY VIEW movie_comment(id, movie_name,  user_comment, actual_label)
    AS VALUES
      (1, 'Good Stuff', 'The part where children guess the sounds is my favorite. It's a very romantic narrative compared to other movies I've seen. Very gentle and full of love.', 'positive');

    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE print_sink(
      id BIGINT,
      movie_name VARCHAR,
      predicit_label VARCHAR,
      actual_label VARCHAR
    ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'print'
    );


Then the following SQL statement can be used to predict sentiment labels for movie reviews:


    INSERT INTO print_sink
    SELECT id, movie_name, content as predicit_label, actual_label
    FROM ML_PREDICT(
      TABLE movie_comment,
      MODEL ai_analyze_sentiment,
      DESCRIPTOR(user_comment));


##  Model Options #

###  Common #

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### api-key

| (none) | String | OpenAI API key for authentication.

##### context-overflow-action

| truncated-tail | Enum | Action to handle context overflows.

Possible values:

  * "truncated-tail": Truncates exceeded tokens from the tail of the context.
  * "truncated-tail-log": Truncates exceeded tokens from the tail of the context. Records the truncation log.
  * "truncated-head": Truncates exceeded tokens from the head of the context.
  * "truncated-head-log": Truncates exceeded tokens from the head of the context. Records the truncation log.
  * "skipped": Skips the input row.
  * "skipped-log": Skips the input row. Records the skipping log.



##### endpoint

| (none) | String | Full URL of the OpenAI API endpoint, e.g., `https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions` or `https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings`

##### error-handling-strategy

| RETRY | Enum | Strategy for handling errors during model requests.

Possible values:

  * "RETRY": Retry sending the request.
  * "FAILOVER": Throw exceptions and fail the Flink job.
  * "IGNORE": Ignore the input that caused the error and continue. The error itself would be recorded in log.



##### max-context-size

| (none) | Integer | Max number of tokens for context. context-overflow-action would be triggered if this threshold is exceeded.

##### model

| (none) | String | Model name, e.g., `gpt-3.5-turbo`, `text-embedding-ada-002`.

##### retry-fallback-strategy

| FAILOVER | Enum | Fallback strategy to employ if the retry attempts are exhausted. This strategy is applied when error-handling-strategy is set to retry.

Possible values:

  * "FAILOVER": Throw exceptions and fail the Flink job.
  * "IGNORE": Ignore the input that caused the error and continue. The error itself would be recorded in log.



##### retry-num

| 100 | Integer | Number of retry for OpenAI client requests.

###  Chat Completions #

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### max-tokens

| (none) | Long | The maximum number of tokens that can be generated in the chat completion.

##### n

| (none) | Long | How many chat completion choices to generate for each input message. Note that you will be charged based on the number of generated tokens across all of the choices. Keep n as 1 to minimize costs.

##### presence-penalty

| (none) | Double | Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model's likelihood to talk about new topics.

##### response-format

| (none) | Enum | The format of the response, e.g., 'text' or 'json_object'.

Possible values:

  * "text"
  * "json_object"



##### seed

| (none) | Long | If specified, the model platform will make a best effort to sample deterministically, such that repeated requests with the same seed and parameters should return the same result. Determinism is not guaranteed.

##### stop

| (none) | String | A CSV list of strings to pass as stop sequences to the model.

##### system-prompt

| "You are a helpful assistant." | String | The system message of a chat.

##### temperature

| (none) | Double | Controls the randomness or “creativity” of the output. Typical values are between 0.0 and 1.0.

##### top-p

| (none) | Double | The probability cutoff for token selection. Usually, either temperature or topP are specified, but not both.

###  Embeddings #

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### dimension

| (none) | Long | The size of the embedding result array.

##  Schema Requirement #

The following table lists the schema requirement for each task.

Task | Input Type | Output Type
---|---|---
Chat Completions | STRING | STRING
Embeddings | STRING | ARRAY<FLOAT>

###  Available Metadata #

When configuring `error-handling-strategy` as `ignore`, you can choose to additionally specify the following metadata columns to surface information about failures into your stream.

  * error-string(STRING): A message associated with the error
  * http-status-code(INT): The HTTP status code
  * http-headers-map(MAP<STRING, ARRAY>): The headers returned with the response

If you defined these metadata columns in the output schema but the call did not fail, the columns will be filled with null values.