**Set up Flink's Process Memory**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup/>).

#  Set up Flink’s Process Memory #

Apache Flink provides efficient workloads on top of the JVM by tightly controlling the memory usage of its various components. While the community strives to offer sensible defaults to all configurations, the full breadth of applications that users deploy on Flink means this isn’t always possible. To provide the most production value to our users, Flink allows both high-level and fine-grained tuning of memory allocation within clusters. To optimize memory requirements, check the [network memory tuning guide](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/network_mem_tuning/>).

The further described memory configuration is applicable starting with the release version _1.10_ for TaskManager and _1.11_ for JobManager processes. If you upgrade Flink from earlier versions, check the [migration guide](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_migration/>) because many changes were introduced with the _1.10_ and _1.11_ releases.

##  Configure Total Memory #

The _total process memory_ of Flink JVM processes consists of memory consumed by the Flink application (_total Flink memory_) and by the JVM to run the process. The _total Flink memory_ consumption includes usage of _JVM Heap_ and _Off-heap_ (_Direct_ or _Native_) memory.



The simplest way to setup memory in Flink is to configure either of the two following options:

**Component** |  **Option for TaskManager** |  **Option for JobManager**
---|---|---
Total Flink memory | [`taskmanager.memory.flink.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#taskmanager-memory-flink-size>) | [`jobmanager.memory.flink.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#jobmanager-memory-flink-size>)
Total process memory | [`taskmanager.memory.process.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#taskmanager-memory-process-size>) | [`jobmanager.memory.process.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#jobmanager-memory-process-size>)


> For local execution, see detailed information for [TaskManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_tm/#local-execution>) and [JobManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_jobmanager/#local-execution>) processes.

The rest of the memory components will be adjusted automatically, based on default values or additionally configured options. See also how to set up other components for [TaskManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_tm/>) and [JobManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_jobmanager/>) memory.

Configuring _total Flink memory_ is better suited for [standalone deployments](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/resource-providers/standalone/overview/>) where you want to declare how much memory is given to Flink itself. The _total Flink memory_ splits up into _JVM Heap_ and _Off-heap_ memory. See also [how to configure memory for standalone deployments](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_tuning/#configure-memory-for-standalone-deployment>).

If you configure _total process memory_ you declare how much memory in total should be assigned to the Flink _JVM process_. For the containerized deployments it corresponds to the size of the requested container, see also [how to configure memory for containers](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_tuning/#configure-memory-for-containers>) ([Kubernetes](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/resource-providers/standalone/kubernetes/>) or [Yarn](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/resource-providers/yarn/>)).

Another way to set up the memory is to configure the required internal components of the _total Flink memory_ which are specific to the concrete Flink process. Check how to configure them for [TaskManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_tm/#configure-heap-and-managed-memory>) and for [JobManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_jobmanager/#configure-jvm-heap>).

One of the three mentioned ways has to be used to configure Flink’s memory (except for local execution), or the Flink startup will fail. This means that one of the following option subsets, which do not have default values, have to be configured explicitly:

**for TaskManager:** |  **for JobManager:**
---|---
[`taskmanager.memory.flink.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#taskmanager-memory-flink-size>) | [`jobmanager.memory.flink.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#jobmanager-memory-flink-size>)
[`taskmanager.memory.process.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#taskmanager-memory-process-size>) | [`jobmanager.memory.process.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#jobmanager-memory-process-size>)
[`taskmanager.memory.task.heap.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#taskmanager-memory-task-heap-size>)
and [`taskmanager.memory.managed.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#taskmanager-memory-managed-size>) | [`jobmanager.memory.heap.size`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#jobmanager-memory-heap-size>)


> Explicitly configuring both _total process memory_ and _total Flink memory_ is not recommended. It may lead to deployment failures due to potential memory configuration conflicts. Configuring other memory components also requires caution as it can produce further configuration conflicts.

##  JVM Parameters #

Flink explicitly adds the following memory related JVM arguments while starting its processes, based on the configured or derived memory component sizes:

**JVM Arguments** |  **Value for TaskManager** |  **Value for JobManager**
---|---|---
_-Xmx_ and _-Xms_ | Framework + Task Heap Memory | JVM Heap Memory (*)
_-XX:MaxDirectMemorySize_
(always added only for TaskManager, see note for JobManager) | Framework + Task Off-heap (**) + Network Memory | Off-heap Memory (**),(***)
_-XX:MaxMetaspaceSize_ | JVM Metaspace | JVM Metaspace

(*) Keep in mind that you might not be able to use the full amount of heap memory depending on the GC algorithm used. Some GC algorithms allocate a certain amount of heap memory for themselves. This will lead to a different maximum being returned by the [Heap metrics](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/ops/metrics/#memory>).
(**) Notice, that the native non-direct usage of memory in user code can be also accounted for as a part of the off-heap memory.
(***) The _JVM Direct memory limit_ is added for JobManager process only if the corresponding option [`jobmanager.memory.enable-jvm-direct-memory-limit`](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/config/#jobmanager-memory-enable-jvm-direct-memory-limit>) is set.


Check also the detailed memory model for [TaskManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_tm/#detailed-memory-model>) and [JobManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_jobmanager/#detailed-configuration>) to understand how to configure the relevant components.

##  Capped Fractionated Components #

This section describes the configuration details of options which can be a fraction of some other memory size while being constrained by a min-max range:

  * _JVM Overhead_ can be a fraction of the _total process memory_
  * _Network memory_ can be a fraction of the _total Flink memory_ (only for TaskManager)

Check also the detailed memory model for [TaskManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_tm/#detailed-memory-model>) and [JobManager](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.18/docs/deployment/memory/mem_setup_jobmanager/#detailed-configuration>) to understand how to configure the relevant components.

The size of those components always has to be between its maximum and minimum value, otherwise Flink startup will fail. The maximum and minimum values have defaults or can be explicitly set by corresponding configuration options. For example, if you only set the following memory options:

  * _total Process memory_ = 1000MB,
  * _JVM Overhead min_ = 64MB,
  * _JVM Overhead max_ = 128MB,
  * _JVM Overhead fraction_ = 0.1

then the _JVM Overhead_ will be 1000MB x 0.1 = 100MB which is within the range 64-128MB.

Notice if you configure the same maximum and minimum value it effectively fixes the size to that value.

If you do not explicitly configure the component memory, then Flink will use the fraction to calculate the memory size based on the total memory. The calculated value is capped by its corresponding min/max options. For example, if only the following memory options are set:

  * _total Process memory_ = 1000MB,
  * _JVM Overhead min_ = 128MB,
  * _JVM Overhead max_ = 256MB,
  * _JVM Overhead fraction_ = 0.1

then the _JVM Overhead_ will be 128MB because the size derived from fraction is 100MB, and it is less than the minimum.

It can also happen that the fraction is ignored if the sizes of the total memory and its other components are defined. In this case, the _JVM Overhead_ is the rest of the total memory. The derived value still has to be within its min/max range otherwise the configuration fails. For example, suppose only the following memory options are set:

  * _total Process memory_ = 1000MB,
  * _task heap_ = 100MB, (similar example can be for _JVM Heap_ in the JobManager)
  * _JVM Overhead min_ = 64MB,
  * _JVM Overhead max_ = 256MB,
  * _JVM Overhead fraction_ = 0.1

All other components of the _total Process memory_ have default values, including the default _Managed Memory_ fraction (or _Off-heap_ memory in the JobManager). Then the _JVM Overhead_ is not the fraction (1000MB x 0.1 = 100MB), but the rest of the _total Process memory_ which will either be within the range 64-256MB or fail.