This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use [the latest stable version](<https://flink.apache.org/q/stable-docs.html>).

  * [DataStream API](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/index.html>)
  * [Example: Wikipedia Edits](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/quickstart/run_example_quickstart.html>)
  * [Event Time](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/event_time.html>)
    * [Generating Timestamps / Watermarks](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/event_timestamps_watermarks.html>)
    * [Pre-defined Timestamp Extractors / Watermark Emitters](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/event_timestamp_extractors.html>)
  * [Windows](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/windows.html>)
  * [Fault Tolerance](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/fault_tolerance.html>)
    * [Working with State](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/state.html>)
    * [State Backends](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/state_backends.html>)
  * [Connectors](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/index.html>)
    * [Cassandra](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/cassandra.html>)
    * [Kafka](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/kafka.html>)
    * [Elasticsearch](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/elasticsearch.html>)
    * [Elasticsearch 2.x](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/elasticsearch2.html>)
    * [Filesystem Sink](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/filesystem_sink.html>)
    * [RabbitMQ](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/rabbitmq.html>)
    * [Amazon Kinesis Streams](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/kinesis.html>)
    * [Twitter](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/twitter.html>)
    * [Redis](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/redis.html>)
    * [Apache NiFi](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/connectors/nifi.html>)
  * [Savepoints](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/savepoints.html>)
  * [Libraries](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/libs/index.html>)
    * [Event Processing (CEP)](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/libs/cep.html>)
  * [Storm Compatibility](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/streaming/storm_compatibility.html>)

**Important** : Maven artifacts which depend on Scala are now suffixed with the Scala major version, e.g. "2.10" or "2.11". Please consult the [migration guide on the project Wiki](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/Maven+artifact+names+suffixed+with+Scala+version>).

# Apache Cassandra Connector

**This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use[the latest stable version](<https://flink.apache.org/q/stable-docs.html>).**

This connector provides sinks that writes data into a [Cassandra](<https://cassandra.apache.org/>) database.

To use this connector, add the following dependency to your project:


    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
      <artifactId>flink-connector-cassandra_2.10</artifactId>
      <version>1.1.5</version>
    </dependency>

Note that the streaming connectors are currently not part of the binary distribution. See how to link with them for cluster execution [here](<//ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-docs-release-1.1/apis/cluster_execution.html#linking-with-modules-not-contained-in-the-binary-distribution>).

#### Installing Apache Cassandra

Follow the instructions from the [Cassandra Getting Started page](<http://wiki.apache.org/cassandra/GettingStarted>).

#### Cassandra Sink

Flink’s Cassandra sink are created by using the static CassandraSink.addSink(DataStream input) method. This method returns a CassandraSinkBuilder, which offers methods to further configure the sink.

The following configuration methods can be used:

  1. setQuery(String query)
  2. setHost(String host[, int port])
  3. setClusterBuilder(ClusterBuilder builder)
  4. enableWriteAheadLog([CheckpointCommitter committer])
  5. build()

_setQuery()_ sets the query that is executed for every value the sink receives. _setHost()_ sets the cassandra host/port to connect to. This method is intended for simple use-cases. _setClusterBuilder()_ sets the cluster builder that is used to configure the connection to cassandra. The _setHost()_ functionality can be subsumed with this method. _enableWriteAheadLog()_ is an optional method, that allows exactly-once processing for non-deterministic algorithms.

A checkpoint committer stores additional information about completed checkpoints in some resource. This information is used to prevent a full replay of the last completed checkpoint in case of a failure. You can use a `CassandraCommitter` to store these in a separate table in cassandra. Note that this table will NOT be cleaned up by Flink.

_build()_ finalizes the configuration and returns the CassandraSink.

Flink can provide exactly-once guarantees if the query is idempotent (meaning it can be applied multiple times without changing the result) and checkpointing is enabled. In case of a failure the failed checkpoint will be replayed completely.

Furthermore, for non-deterministic programs the write-ahead log has to be enabled. For such a program the replayed checkpoint may be completely different than the previous attempt, which may leave the database in an inconsitent state since part of the first attempt may already be written. The write-ahead log guarantees that the replayed checkpoint is identical to the first attempt. Note that that enabling this feature will have an adverse impact on latency.

**Note** : The write-ahead log functionality is currently experimental. In many cases it is sufficent to use the connector without enabling it. Please report problems to the development mailing list.

#### Example


    CassandraSink.addSink(input)
      .setQuery("INSERT INTO example.values (id, counter) values (?, ?);")
      .setClusterBuilder(new ClusterBuilder() {
        @Override
        public Cluster buildCluster(Cluster.Builder builder) {
          return builder.addContactPoint("127.0.0.1").build();
        }
      })
      .build();


    CassandraSink.addSink(input)
      .setQuery("INSERT INTO example.values (id, counter) values (?, ?);")
      .setClusterBuilder(new ClusterBuilder() {
        @Override
        public Cluster buildCluster(Cluster.Builder builder) {
          return builder.addContactPoint("127.0.0.1").build();
        }
      })
      .build();

The Cassandra sinks support both tuples and POJO’s that use DataStax annotations. Flink automatically detects which type of input is used.

Example for such a Pojo:


    @Table(keyspace= "test", name = "mappersink")
    public class Pojo implements Serializable {

    	private static final long serialVersionUID = 1038054554690916991L;

    	@Column(name = "id")
    	private long id;
    	@Column(name = "value")
    	private String value;

    	public Pojo(long id, String value){
    		this.id = id;
    		this.value = value;
    	}

    	public long getId() {
    		return id;
    	}

    	public void setId(long id) {
    		this.id = id;
    	}

    	public String getValue() {
    		return value;
    	}

    	public void setValue(String value) {
    		this.value = value;
    	}
    }