# Apache Flink®

## Stateful Computations over Data Streams

Apache Flink is a framework and distributed processing engine for stateful computations over unbounded and bounded data streams. Flink has been designed to run in all common cluster environments, perform computations at in-memory speed and at any scale.

Flink Capabilities

Correctness guarantees

Exactly-once state consistency

Event-time processing

Sophisticated late data handling

[ Learn More __](</what-is-flink/flink-applications#building-blocks-for-streaming-applications>)

Layered APIs

SQL on Stream & Batch Data

DataStream API

ProcessFunction (Time & State)

[ Learn More __](</what-is-flink/flink-applications/#layered-apis>)

Operational focus

Flexible deployment

High-availability setup

Savepoints

[ Learn More __](</what-is-flink/flink-operations/>)

Scalability

Scale-out architecture

Support for very large state

Incremental Checkpoints

[ Learn More __](</what-is-flink/flink-architecture/#run-applications-at-any-scale>)

Performance

Low latency

High throughput

In-Memory computing

[ Learn More __](</what-is-flink/flink-architecture/#leverage-in-memory-performance>)

Use Cases

Event Driven Applications

An event-driven application is a stateful application that ingests events from one or more event streams and reacts to incoming events by triggering computations, state updates, or external actions.

Stream & Batch Analytics

Analytical jobs extract information and insight from raw data. Apache Flink supports traditional batch queries on bounded data sets and real-time, continuous queries from unbounded, live data streams.

Data Pipelines & ETL

Extract-transform-load (ETL) is a common approach to convert and move data between storage systems.

[ Learn more about Flink use cases __](</what-is-flink/use-cases/>)

Recent Flink blogs

Introducing Flink's Native S3 FileSystem: Built for Performance, Designed for Production

June 26, 2026 - Gabor Somogyi. Samrat Deb.

Apache Flink relies on the underlying filesystem for much of its work: reading and writing application data, materializing streaming sinks, and storing checkpoints and savepoints for recovery. For …

[Continue reading](</2026/06/26/announcing-native-s3-fs/>)

Apache Flink 2.3.0 Release Announcement

June 25, 2026 - Apache Flink PMC.

The Apache Flink PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Flink 2.3.0. This release significantly expands SQL capabilities with changelog conversion operators, enhances materialized table …

[Continue reading](</2026/06/25/apache-flink-2.3.0-release-announcement/>)

Apache Flink Agents 0.3.0 Release Announcement

June 19, 2026 - Wenjin Xie.

The Apache Flink Community is excited to announce the release of Apache Flink Agents 0.3.0. Get access to Flink Agents 0.3.0 now: Download the release here. Find documentation and quickstart examples …

[Continue reading](</2026/06/19/apache-flink-agents-0.3.0-release-announcement/>)

[ Read more blog posts __](</posts/>)