**DROP Statements**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/table/hive-compatibility/hive-dialect/drop/>).

#  CREATE Statements #

With Hive dialect, the following DROP statements are supported for now:

  * DROP DATABASE
  * DROP TABLE
  * DROP VIEW
  * DROP MARCO
  * DROP FUNCTION

##  DROP DATABASE #

###  Description #

`DROP DATABASE` statement is used to drop a database as well as the tables/directories associated with the database.

###  Syntax #


    DROP (DATABASE|SCHEMA) [IF EXISTS] database_name [RESTRICT|CASCADE];


The use of `SCHEMA` and `DATABASE` are interchangeable - they mean the same thing. The default behavior is `RESTRICT`, where `DROP DATABASE` will fail if the database is not empty. To drop the tables in the database as well, use `DROP DATABASE ... CASCADE`.

`DROP` returns an error if the database doesn’t exist, unless `IF EXISTS` is specified or the configuration variable [hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties#ConfigurationProperties-hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent>) is set to true.

###  Examples #


    DROP DATABASE db1 CASCADE;


##  DROP TABLE #

###  Description #

`DROP TABLE` statement removes metadata and data for this table. The data is actually moved to the `.Trash/Current` directory if Trash is configured. The metadata is completely lost.

When drop an `EXTERNAL` table, data in the table will not be deleted from the filesystem.

###  Syntax #


    DROP TABLE [IF EXISTS] table_name;


`DROP` returns an error if the table doesn’t exist, unless `IF EXISTS` is specified or the configuration variable [hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties#ConfigurationProperties-hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent>) is set to true.

###  Examples #


    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS t1;


##  DROP VIEW #

###  Description #

`DROP VIEW` statement is used to removed metadata for the specified view.

###  Syntax #


    DROP VIEW [IF EXISTS] [db_name.]view_name;


`DROP` returns an error if the view doesn’t exist, unless `IF EXISTS` is specified or the configuration variable [hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties#ConfigurationProperties-hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent>) is set to true.

###  Examples #


    DROP VIEW IF EXISTS v1;


##  DROP MARCO #

`DROP MARCO` statement is used to drop the existing `MARCO`. Please refer to [CREATE MARCO](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.17/docs/dev/table/hive-compatibility/hive-dialect/create/#create-marco>) for how to create `MARCO`.

###  Syntax #


    DROP TEMPORARY MACRO [IF EXISTS] macro_name;


`DROP` returns an error if the macro doesn’t exist, unless `IF EXISTS` is specified.

###  Examples #


    DROP TEMPORARY MACRO IF EXISTS m1;


##  DROP FUNCTION #

`DROP FUNCTION` statement is used to drop the existing `FUNCTION`.

###  Syntax #


    --- Drop temporary function
    DROP TEMPORARY FUNCTION [IF EXISTS] function_name;

    --- Drop permanent function
    DROP FUNCTION [IF EXISTS] function_name;


`DROP` returns an error if the function doesn’t exist, unless `IF EXISTS` is specified or the configuration variable [hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties#ConfigurationProperties-hive.exec.drop.ignorenonexistent>) is set to true.

###  Examples #


    DROP FUNCTION IF EXISTS f1;