**Elasticsearch**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  Elasticsearch Pipeline Connector #

The Elasticsearch Pipeline connector can be used as the _Data Sink_ of the pipeline, and write data to Elasticsearch. This document describes how to set up the Elasticsearch Pipeline connector.

##  How to create Pipeline #

The pipeline for reading data from MySQL and sink to Elasticsearch can be defined as follows:


    source:
       type: mysql
       name: MySQL Source
       hostname: 127.0.0.1
       port: 3306
       username: admin
       password: pass
       tables: adb.\.*, bdb.user_table_[0-9]+, [app|web].order_\.*
       server-id: 5401-5404

    sink:
      type: elasticsearch
      name: Elasticsearch Sink
      hosts: http://127.0.0.1:9092,http://127.0.0.1:9093

    route:
      - source-table: adb.\.*
        sink-table: default_index
        description: sync adb.\.* table to default_index

    pipeline:
      name: MySQL to Elasticsearch Pipeline
      parallelism: 2


##  Pipeline Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---
type | required | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be `'elasticsearch'`.
name | optional | (none) | String | The name of the sink.
hosts | required | (none) | String | One or more Elasticsearch hosts to connect to, e.g. 'http://host_name:9092,http://host_name:9093'.
version | optional | 7 | Integer | Specify what connector to use, valid values are:

  * 6: connect to Elasticsearch 6.x cluster.
  * 7: connect to Elasticsearch 7.x cluster.
  * 8: connect to Elasticsearch 8.x cluster.


username | optional | (none) | String | The username for Elasticsearch authentication.
password | optional | (none) | String | The password for Elasticsearch authentication.
batch.size.max | optional | 500 | Integer | Maximum number of buffered actions per bulk request. Can be set to '0' to disable it.
inflight.requests.max | optional | 5 | Integer | The maximum number of concurrent requests that the sink will try to execute.
buffered.requests.max | optional | 1000 | Integer | The maximum number of requests to keep in the in-memory buffer.
batch.size.max.bytes | optional | 5242880 | Long | The maximum size of batch requests in bytes.
buffer.time.max.ms | optional | 5000 | Long | The maximum time to wait for incomplete batches before flushing.
record.size.max.bytes | optional | 10485760 | Long | The maximum size of a single record in bytes.
sharding.suffix.key | optional | (none) | Long | Sharding suffix key for each table, allow setting sharding suffix key for multiTables.Default sink table name is test_table${suffix_key}.Default sharding column is first partition column.Tables are separated by ';'.Table and column are separated by ':'.For example, we can set sharding.suffix.key by 'table1:col1;table2:col2'.
sharding.suffix.separator | optional | "_" | String | Separator for sharding suffix in table names, allow defining the separator between table name and sharding suffix. Default value is '_'. For example, if set to '-', the default table name would be test_table-${suffix}

##  Usage Notes #

  * The written index of Elasticsearch will be `namespace.schemaName.tableName` string of TableId，this can be changed using route function of pipeline.

  * No support for automatic Elasticsearch index creation.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Elasticsearch stores document in a JSON string. So the data type mapping is between Flink CDC data type and JSON data type.

CDC type | JSON type | NOTE
---|---|---
TINYINT | NUMBER |
SMALLINT | NUMBER |
INT | NUMBER |
BIGINT | NUMBER |
FLOAT | NUMBER |
DOUBLE | NUMBER |
DECIMAL(p, s) | STRING |
BOOLEAN | BOOLEAN |
DATE | STRING | with format: date (yyyy-MM-dd), example: 2024-10-21
TIMESTAMP | STRING | with format: date-time (yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS, with UTC time zone), example: 2024-10-21 14:10:56.000000
TIMESTAMP_LTZ | STRING | with format: date-time (yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS, with UTC time zone), example: 2024-10-21 14:10:56.000000
CHAR(n) | STRING |
VARCHAR(n) | STRING |
ARRAY | ARRAY |
MAP | STRING |
ROW | STRING |

__Back to top