**Processing Timer Service**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/datastream-v2/time-processing/processing_timer_service/>).

> **Note:** DataStream API V2 is a new set of APIs, to gradually replace the original DataStream API. It is currently in the experimental stage and is not fully available for production.

#  Processing Timer Service #

The process timer service is a fundamental primitive of the Flink DataStream API, provided by Flink. It allows users to register timers for performing calculations at specific processing time points.

For a comprehensive explanation of processing time, please refer to the section on [Notions of Time: Event Time and Processing Time](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/concepts/time/#notions-of-time-event-time-and-processing-time>).

In this section, we will introduce how to utilize the processing timer service within the Flink DataStream API.

##  ProcessingTimerManager #

The `ProcessingTimerManager` is the key component for utilizing the processing timer service. You can obtain it by calling `PartitionedContext#getProcessingTimeManager` within a `ProcessFunction`. Below is the interface for the `ProcessingTimerManager`:


    @Experimental
    public interface ProcessingTimeManager {
        /**
         * Register a processing timer for this process function. `onProcessingTimer` method of this
         * function will be invoked as callback if the timer expires.
         *
         * @param timestamp to trigger timer callback.
         */
        void registerTimer(long timestamp);

        /**
         * Deletes the processing-time timer with the given trigger timestamp. This method has only an
         * effect if such a timer was previously registered and did not already expire.
         *
         * @param timestamp indicates the timestamp of the timer to delete.
         */
        void deleteTimer(long timestamp);

        /**
         * Get the current processing time.
         *
         * @return current processing time.
         */
        long currentTime();
    }


As shown above, `ProcessingTimerManager` has three methods: `registerTimer`, `deleteTimer`, and `currentTime`. When the target time of `registerTimer` arrives, Flink will call `ProcessFunction#onProcessingTimer`, and users should write their own calculation logic in `ProcessFunction#onProcessingTimer`.

It should be noted that:

  1. for timers with the same target time, Flink will only retain one timer. This means that if multiple timers with the same target time are registered, `ProcessFunction#onProcessingTimer` will only be invoked once.
  2. the `ProcessingTimerManager` can only be used in Keyed Partitioned Stream.

##  Example #

Here is an example of using the processing timer service:


    public class CustomProcessFunction implements OneInputStreamProcessFunction<String, String> {

        @Override
        public void processRecord(
                String record,
                Collector<String> output,
                PartitionedContext<String> ctx) throws Exception {
            // do some calculation as needed

            // register a timer with a target time of one minute after the current time
            long currentTime = ctx.getProcessingTimeManager().currentTime();
            ctx.getProcessingTimeManager().registerTimer(currentTime + Duration.ofMinutes(1L).toMillis());
        }

        @Override
        public void onProcessingTimer(
                long timestamp,
                Collector<String> output,
                PartitionedContext<String> ctx) {
            // do some calculation and output result as needed
        }
    }


__Back to top