**Hadoop**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/dataset/formats/hadoop/>).

#  Hadoop formats #

##  Project Configuration #

Support for Hadoop is contained in the `flink-hadoop-compatibility` Maven module.

Add the following dependency to your `pom.xml` to use hadoop


    <dependency>
    	<groupId>org.apache.flink</groupId>
    	<artifactId>flink-hadoop-compatibility_2.11</artifactId>
    	<version>1.14.4</version>
    </dependency>


If you want to run your Flink application locally (e.g. from your IDE), you also need to add a `hadoop-client` dependency such as:


    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.apache.hadoop</groupId>
        <artifactId>hadoop-client</artifactId>
        <version>2.8.3</version>
        <scope>provided</scope>
    </dependency>


##  Using Hadoop InputFormats #

To use Hadoop `InputFormats` with Flink the format must first be wrapped using either `readHadoopFile` or `createHadoopInput` of the `HadoopInputs` utility class. The former is used for input formats derived from `FileInputFormat` while the latter has to be used for general purpose input formats. The resulting `InputFormat` can be used to create a data source by using `ExecutionEnvironmen#createInput`.

The resulting `DataSet` contains 2-tuples where the first field is the key and the second field is the value retrieved from the Hadoop InputFormat.

The following example shows how to use Hadoop’s `TextInputFormat`.

Java


    ExecutionEnvironment env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();

    DataSet<Tuple2<LongWritable, Text>> input =
        env.createInput(HadoopInputs.readHadoopFile(new TextInputFormat(),
                            LongWritable.class, Text.class, textPath));

    // Do something with the data.
    [...]


Scala


    val env = ExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment

    val input: DataSet[(LongWritable, Text)] =
      env.createInput(HadoopInputs.readHadoopFile(
                        new TextInputFormat, classOf[LongWritable], classOf[Text], textPath))

    // Do something with the data.
    [...]


##  Using Hadoop OutputFormats #

Flink provides a compatibility wrapper for Hadoop `OutputFormats`. Any class that implements `org.apache.hadoop.mapred.OutputFormat` or extends `org.apache.hadoop.mapreduce.OutputFormat` is supported. The OutputFormat wrapper expects its input data to be a DataSet containing 2-tuples of key and value. These are to be processed by the Hadoop OutputFormat.

The following example shows how to use Hadoop’s `TextOutputFormat`.

Java


    // Obtain the result we want to emit
    DataSet<Tuple2<Text, IntWritable>> hadoopResult = [...]

    // Set up the Hadoop TextOutputFormat.
    HadoopOutputFormat<Text, IntWritable> hadoopOF =
      // create the Flink wrapper.
      new HadoopOutputFormat<Text, IntWritable>(
        // set the Hadoop OutputFormat and specify the job.
        new TextOutputFormat<Text, IntWritable>(), job
      );
    hadoopOF.getConfiguration().set("mapreduce.output.textoutputformat.separator", " ");
    TextOutputFormat.setOutputPath(job, new Path(outputPath));

    // Emit data using the Hadoop TextOutputFormat.
    hadoopResult.output(hadoopOF);


Scala


    // Obtain your result to emit.
    val hadoopResult: DataSet[(Text, IntWritable)] = [...]

    val hadoopOF = new HadoopOutputFormat[Text,IntWritable](
      new TextOutputFormat[Text, IntWritable],
      new JobConf)

    hadoopOF.getJobConf.set("mapred.textoutputformat.separator", " ")
    FileOutputFormat.setOutputPath(hadoopOF.getJobConf, new Path(resultPath))

    hadoopResult.output(hadoopOF)




__Back to top