**CALL Statements**

#  Call Statements #

`Call` statements are used to call a stored procedure which is usually provided to perform data manipulation or administrative tasks.

Attention Currently, `Call` statements require the procedure called to exist in the corresponding catalog. So, please make sure the procedure exists in the catalog. If it doesnā€™t exist, itā€™ll throw an exception. You may need to refer to the doc of the catalog to see the available procedures. To implement an procedure, please refer to [Procedure](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.3/docs/dev/table/procedures/>).

##  Run a CALL statement #

Java

CALL statements can be executed with the `executeSql()` method of the `TableEnvironment`. The `executeSql()` will immediately call the procedure, and return a `TableResult` instance which associates the procedure.

The following examples show how to execute a CALL statement in `TableEnvironment`.

Scala

CALL statements can be executed with the `executeSql()` method of the `TableEnvironment`. The `executeSql()` will immediately call the procedure, and return a `TableResult` instance which associates the procedure.

The following examples show how to execute a single CALL statement in `TableEnvironment`.

Python

CALL statements can be executed with the `execute_sql()` method of the `TableEnvironment`. The `executeSql()` will immediately call the procedure, and return a `TableResult` instance which associates the procedure.

The following examples show how to execute a single CALL statement in `TableEnvironment`.

SQL CLI

CALL statements can be executed in [SQL CLI](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.3/docs/sql/interfaces/sql-client/>).

The following examples show how to execute a CALL statement in SQL CLI.

Java


    TableEnvironment tEnv = TableEnvironment.create(...);

    // assuming the procedure `generate_n` has existed in `system` database of the current catalog
    tEnv.executeSql("CALL `system`.generate_n(4)").print();


Scala


    val tEnv = TableEnvironment.create(...)

    // assuming the procedure `generate_n` has existed in `system` database of the current catalog
    tEnv.executeSql("CALL `system`.generate_n(4)").print()


Python


    table_env = TableEnvironment.create(...)

    # assuming the procedure `generate_n` has existed in `system` database of the current catalog
    table_env.execute_sql().print()


SQL CLI


    // assuming the procedure `generate_n` has existed in `system` database of the current catalog
    Flink SQL> CALL `system`.generate_n(4);
    +--------+
    | result |
    +--------+
    |      0 |
    |      1 |
    |      2 |
    |      3 |
    +--------+
    4 rows in set
    !ok


__Back to top

##  Syntax #


    CALL [catalog_name.][database_name.]procedure_name ([ expression [, expression]* ] )