**Route**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  Definition #

**Route** specifies the rule of matching a list of source-table and mapping to sink-table. The most typical scenario is the merge of sub-databases and sub-tables, routing multiple upstream source tables to the same sink table.

#  Parameters #

To describe a route, the follows are required:

parameter | meaning | optional/required
---|---|---
source-table | Source table id, supports regular expressions | required
sink-table | Sink table id, supports symbol replacement | required
replace-symbol | Special symbol in sink-table for pattern replacing, will be replaced by original table name | optional
description | Routing rule description(a default value provided) | optional

A route module can contain a list of source-table/sink-table rules.

#  Route Mode #

By default, all matching route rules are applied to a table. You can configure the `route-mode` option in the pipeline configuration to change this behavior:

Value | Description
---|---
`ALL_MATCH` | Apply all matching route rules to a table. This is the default mode.
`FIRST_MATCH` | Apply only the first matching route rule and stop evaluation.

For example, to use `FIRST_MATCH` mode:


    pipeline:
      name: Sync MySQL Database to Doris
      parallelism: 2
      route-mode: FIRST_MATCH


> When using `FIRST_MATCH` mode, route rules are evaluated in the order they are defined. The first rule that matches the source table will be applied, and subsequent rules will be skipped.

#  Example #

##  Route one Data Source table to one Data Sink table #

if synchronize the table `web_order` in the database `mydb` to a Doris table `ods_web_order`, we can use this yaml file to define this route：


    route:
      - source-table: mydb.web_order
        sink-table: mydb.ods_web_order
        description: sync table to one destination table with given prefix ods_


##  Route multiple Data Source tables to one Data Sink table #

What’s more, if you want to synchronize the sharding tables in the database `mydb` to a Doris table `ods_web_order`, we can use this yaml file to define this route：


    route:
      - source-table: mydb\.*
        sink-table: mydb.ods_web_order
        description: sync sharding tables to one destination table


##  Complex Route via combining route rules #

What’s more, if you want to specify many different mapping rules, we can use this yaml file to define this route：


    route:
      - source-table: mydb.orders
        sink-table: ods_db.ods_orders
        description: sync orders table to orders
      - source-table: mydb.shipments
        sink-table: ods_db.ods_shipments
        description: sync shipments table to ods_shipments
      - source-table: mydb.products
        sink-table: ods_db.ods_products
        description: sync products table to ods_products


##  Pattern Replacement in routing rules #

If you’d like to route source tables and rename them to sink tables with specific patterns, `replace-symbol` could be used to resemble source table names like this:


    route:
      - source-table: source_db.\.*
        sink-table: sink_db.<>
        replace-symbol: <>
        description: route all tables in source_db to sink_db


Then, all tables including `source_db.XXX` will be routed to `sink_db.XXX` without hassle.

##  Advanced: RegExp Capturing & Replacement Rules #

It is also possible to create capturing groups in `source-table` fields like this:


    route:
      - source-table: db_(\.*).(\.*)_tbl
        sink-table: sink_db_$1.sink_table_$2


Here we create two capturing groups matching database suffix and table prefix.

For upstream table `db_foo.bar_tbl`, capturing group `(foo, bar)` will be extracted and bound to `$1` and `$2`. As a result, such table will be routed to downstream table `sink_db_foo.sink_table_bar`.

> Standard RegExp capturing could not be used with `replace-symbol` options.