**Quick Start**

#  Quick Start #

This document provides a quick introduction to using Flink ML. Readers of this document will be guided to submit a simple Flink job that trains a Machine Learning Model and use it to provide prediction service.

##  Prerequisites #

###  Install Flink #

Please make sure Flink 1.15 or higher version has been installed in your local environment. You can refer to the [local installation](<https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/try-flink/local_installation/>) instruction on Flink’s document website for how to achieve this.

###  Set Up Flink Environment Variables #

After having installed Flink, please register `$FLINK_HOME` as an environment variable into your local environment.


    cd ${path_to_flink}
    export FLINK_HOME=`pwd`


###  Build Flink ML library #

In order to use Flink ML’s CLI you need to have the latest binary distribution of Flink ML. You can acquire the distribution by building Flink ML’s source code locally with the following command.


    cd ${path_to_flink_ml}
    mvn clean package -DskipTests
    cd ./flink-ml-dist/target/flink-ml-*-bin/flink-ml*/


##  Run Flink ML example job #

Please start a Flink standalone cluster in your local environment with the following command.


    $FLINK_HOME/bin/start-cluster.sh


You should be able to navigate to the web UI at [localhost:8081](<http://localhost:8081/>) to view the Flink dashboard and see that the cluster is up and running.

Then you may submit Flink ML examples to the cluster as follows.


    $FLINK_HOME/bin/flink run -c org.apache.flink.ml.examples.clustering.KMeansExample -C file://`pwd`/lib/flink-ml-uber-2.1-SNAPSHOT.jar -C file://`pwd`/lib/statefun-flink-core-3.2.0.jar lib/flink-ml-examples-2.1-SNAPSHOT.jar


The command above would submit and execute Flink ML’s `KMeansExample` job. There are also example jobs for other Flink ML algorithms, and you can find them in `flink-ml-examples` module.

A sample output in your terminal is as follows.


    Features: [9.0, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 1
    Features: [0.3, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 0
    Features: [0.0, 0.3]    Cluster ID: 0
    Features: [9.6, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 1
    Features: [0.0, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 0
    Features: [9.0, 0.6]    Cluster ID: 1



Now you have successfully run a Flink ML job.