**Quick Start**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink Table Store. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-table-store-docs-stable/>).

#  Quick Start #

This document provides a quick introduction to using Flink Table Store. Readers of this document will be guided to create a simple dynamic table to read and write it.

##  Step 1: Downloading Flink #

> **Note:** Table Store is only supported since Flink 1.14.

[Download Flink 1.16](<https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html>), then extract the archive:


    tar -xzf flink-*.tgz


##  Step 2: Copy Table Store Bundle Jar #

You are using an unreleased version of Table Store, you need to manually [Build Bundled Jar](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-table-store-docs-master/docs/engines/build/>) from the source code.

Copy table store bundle jar to flink/lib:


    cp flink-table-store-dist-*.jar FLINK_HOME/lib/


##  Step 3: Copy Hadoop Bundle Jar #

[Download](<https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html>) Pre-bundled Hadoop.


    cp flink-shaded-hadoop-2-uber-*.jar FLINK_HOME/lib/


##  Step 4: Start Flink Local Cluster #

In order to run multiple jobs, you need to modify the cluster configuration:


    vi ./conf/flink-conf.yaml

    taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots: 2


To start a local cluster, run the bash script that comes with Flink:


    ./bin/start-cluster.sh


You should be able to navigate to the web UI at [localhost:8081](<http://localhost:8081>) to view the Flink dashboard and see that the cluster is up and running.

Start the SQL Client CLI:


    ./bin/sql-client.sh embedded


##  Step 5: Create Table #


    CREATE CATALOG my_catalog WITH (
      'type'='table-store',
      'warehouse'='file:/tmp/table_store'
    );

    USE CATALOG my_catalog;

    -- create a word count table
    CREATE TABLE word_count (
        word STRING PRIMARY KEY NOT ENFORCED,
        cnt BIGINT
    );


##  Step 6: Write Data #


    -- create a word data generator table
    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE word_table (
        word STRING
    ) WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'fields.word.length' = '1'
    );

    -- table store requires checkpoint interval in streaming mode
    SET 'execution.checkpointing.interval' = '10 s';

    -- write streaming data to dynamic table
    INSERT INTO word_count SELECT word, COUNT(*) FROM word_table GROUP BY word;


##  Step 7: OLAP Query #


    -- use tableau result mode
    SET 'sql-client.execution.result-mode' = 'tableau';

    -- switch to batch mode
    RESET 'execution.checkpointing.interval';
    SET 'execution.runtime-mode' = 'batch';

    -- olap query the table
    SELECT * FROM word_count;


You can execute the query multiple times and observe the changes in the results.

##  Step 8: Streaming Query #


    -- switch to streaming mode
    SET 'execution.runtime-mode' = 'streaming';

    -- track the changes of table and calculate the count interval statistics
    SELECT `interval`, COUNT(*) AS interval_cnt FROM
      (SELECT cnt / 10000 AS `interval` FROM word_count) GROUP BY `interval`;


With the streaming mode, you can get the change log of the dynamic table, and perform new stream computations.

##  Step 9: Exit #

Cancel streaming job in [localhost:8081](<http://localhost:8081>).


    -- drop the dynamic table, clear the files
    DROP TABLE word_count;

    -- exit sql-client
    EXIT;


Stop the Flink local cluster:


    ./bin/stop-cluster.sh


##  Congratulation! #

You have completed the Flink Table Store Quick Start.