**Raw**

#  Raw Format #

Format: Serialization Schema Format: Deserialization Schema

The Raw format allows to read and write raw (byte based) values as a single column.

Note: this format encodes `null` values as `null` of `byte[]` type. This may have limitation when used in `upsert-kafka`, because `upsert-kafka` treats `null` values as a tombstone message (DELETE on the key). Therefore, we recommend avoiding using `upsert-kafka` connector and the `raw` format as a `value.format` if the field can have a `null` value.

The Raw connector is built-in, no additional dependencies are required.

##  Example #

For example, you may have following raw log data in Kafka and want to read and analyse such data using Flink SQL.


    47.29.201.179 - - [28/Feb/2019:13:17:10 +0000] "GET /?p=1 HTTP/2.0" 200 5316 "https://domain.com/?p=1" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/72.0.3626.119 Safari/537.36" "2.75"


The following creates a table where it reads from (and can writes to) the underlying Kafka topic as an anonymous string value in UTF-8 encoding by using `raw` format:


    CREATE TABLE nginx_log (
      log STRING
    ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'kafka',
      'topic' = 'nginx_log',
      'properties.bootstrap.servers' = 'localhost:9092',
      'properties.group.id' = 'testGroup',
      'format' = 'raw'
    )


Then you can read out the raw data as a pure string, and split it into multiple fields using an user-defined-function for further analysing, e.g. `my_split` in the example.


    SELECT t.hostname, t.datetime, t.url, t.browser, ...
    FROM(
      SELECT my_split(log) as t FROM nginx_log
    );


In contrast, you can also write a single column of STRING type into this Kafka topic as an anonymous string value in UTF-8 encoding.

##  Format Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---

##### format

| required | (none) | String | Specify what format to use, here should be 'raw'.

##### raw.charset

| optional | UTF-8 | String | Specify the charset to encode the text string.

##### raw.endianness

| optional | big-endian | String | Specify the endianness to encode the bytes of numeric value. Valid values are 'big-endian' and 'little-endian'. See more details of [endianness](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness>).

##  Data Type Mapping #

The table below details the SQL types the format supports, including details of the serializer and deserializer class for encoding and decoding.

Flink SQL type | Value
---|---
`CHAR / VARCHAR / STRING` | A UTF-8 (by default) encoded text string.
The encoding charset can be configured by 'raw.charset'.
`BINARY / VARBINARY / BYTES` | The sequence of bytes itself.
`BOOLEAN` | A single byte to indicate boolean value, 0 means false, 1 means true.
`TINYINT` | A single byte of the signed number value.
`SMALLINT` | Two bytes with big-endian (by default) encoding.
The endianness can be configured by 'raw.endianness'.
`INT` | Four bytes with big-endian (by default) encoding.
The endianness can be configured by 'raw.endianness'.
`BIGINT` | Eight bytes with big-endian (by default) encoding.
The endianness can be configured by 'raw.endianness'.
`FLOAT` | Four bytes with IEEE 754 format and big-endian (by default) encoding.
The endianness can be configured by 'raw.endianness'.
`DOUBLE` | Eight bytes with IEEE 754 format and big-endian (by default) encoding.
The endianness can be configured by 'raw.endianness'.
`RAW` | The sequence of bytes serialized by the underlying TypeSerializer of the RAW type.