**DataGen**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/table/datagen/>).

#  DataGen SQL Connector #

Scan Source: Bounded Scan Source: UnBounded

The DataGen connector allows for creating tables based on in-memory data generation. This is useful when developing queries locally without access to external systems such as Kafka. Tables can include [Computed Column syntax](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/sql/reference/ddl/create/#create-table>) which allows for flexible record generation.

The DataGen connector is built-in, no additional dependencies are required.

##  Usage #

By default, a DataGen table will create an unbounded number of rows with a random value for each column. Additionally, a total number of rows can be specified, resulting in a bounded table.

The DataGen connector can generate data that conforms to its defined schema, It should be noted that it handles length-constrained fields as follows:

  * For fixed-length data types (char/binary), the field length can only be defined by the schema, and does not support customization.
  * For variable-length data types (varchar/varbinary), the field length is initially defined by the schema, and the customized length cannot be greater than the schema definition.
  * For super-long fields (string/bytes), the default length is 100, but can be set to a length less than 2^31.

There also exists a sequence generator, where users specify a sequence of start and end values. If any column in a table is a sequence type, the table will be bounded and end with the first sequence completes.

Time types are always the local machines current system time.


    CREATE TABLE Orders (
        order_number BIGINT,
        price        DECIMAL(32,2),
        buyer        ROW<first_name STRING, last_name STRING>,
        order_time   TIMESTAMP(3)
    ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'datagen'
    )


Often, the data generator connector is used in conjunction with the `LIKE` clause to mock out physical tables.


    CREATE TABLE Orders (
        order_number BIGINT,
        price        DECIMAL(32,2),
        buyer        ROW<first_name STRING, last_name STRING>,
        order_time   TIMESTAMP(3)
    ) WITH (...)

    -- create a bounded mock table
    CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE GenOrders
    WITH (
        'connector' = 'datagen',
        'number-of-rows' = '10'
    )
    LIKE Orders (EXCLUDING ALL)


Furthermore, for variable sized types, varchar/string/varbinary/bytes, you can specify whether to enable variable-length data generation.


    CREATE TABLE Orders (
        order_number BIGINT,
        price        DECIMAL(32,2),
        buyer        ROW<first_name STRING, last_name STRING>,
        order_time   TIMESTAMP(3),
        seller       VARCHAR(150)
    ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'datagen',
      'fields.seller.var-len' = 'true'
    )


And for collections it is possible to specify different sized collections.


    CREATE TABLE Orders (
        f0 Array<INT>,
        f1 Map<INT, STRING>,
        f2 MULTISET<INT>
    ) WITH (
      'connector' = 'datagen',
      'fields.f0.length' = '10',
      'fields.f1.length' = '11',
      'fields.f2.length' = '12'
    );


##  Types #

Type | Supported Generators | Notes
---|---|---
BOOLEAN | random |
CHAR | random / sequence |
VARCHAR | random / sequence |
BINARY | random / sequence |
VARBINARY | random / sequence |
STRING | random / sequence |
DECIMAL | random / sequence |
TINYINT | random / sequence |
SMALLINT | random / sequence |
INT | random / sequence |
BIGINT | random / sequence |
FLOAT | random / sequence |
DOUBLE | random / sequence |
DATE | random | Always resolves to the current date of the local machine.
TIME | random | Always resolves to the current time of the local machine.
TIMESTAMP | random |  Resolves a past timestamp relative to the current timestamp of the local machine. The max past can be specified by the 'max-past' option.
TIMESTAMP_LTZ | random |  Resolves a past timestamp relative to the current timestamp of the local machine. The max past can be specified by the 'max-past' option.
INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH | random |
INTERVAL DAY TO MONTH | random |
ROW | random | Generates a row with random subfields.
ARRAY | random | Generates an array with random entries.
MAP | random | Generates a map with random entries.
MULTISET | random | Generates a multiset with random entries.

##  Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---

##### connector

| required | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be 'datagen'.

##### rows-per-second

| optional | 10000 | Long | Rows per second to control the emit rate.

##### number-of-rows

| optional | (none) | Long | The total number of rows to emit. By default, the table is unbounded.

##### scan.parallelism

| optional | (none) | Integer | Defines the parallelism of the source. If not set, the global default parallelism is used.

##### fields.#.kind

| optional | random | String | Generator of this '#' field. Can be 'sequence' or 'random'.

##### fields.#.min

| optional | (Minimum value of type) | (Type of field) | Minimum value of random generator, only works for numeric types.

##### fields.#.max

| optional | (Maximum value of type) | (Type of field) | Maximum value of random generator, only works for numeric types.

##### fields.#.max-past

| optional | 0 | Duration | Maximum past of timestamp random generator, only works for timestamp types.

##### fields.#.length

| optional | 100 for string/bytes, 3 for array/map/multiset  | Integer |  Size or length of the collection for generating varchar/varbinary/string/bytes/array/map/multiset types. Please note that for variable-length fields (varchar/varbinary), the default length is defined by the schema and cannot be set to a length greater than it. For super-long fields (string/bytes), the default length is 100 and can be set to a length less than 2^31. For constructed fields (array/map/multiset), the default number of elements is 3.

##### fields.#.var-len

| optional | false | Boolean | Whether to generate a variable-length data, only works for variable-length types (varchar, string, varbinary, bytes).

##### fields.#.start

| optional | (none) | (Type of field) | Start value of sequence generator.

##### fields.#.end

| optional | (none) | (Type of field) | End value of sequence generator.

##### fields.#.null-rate

| optional | 0 | (Type of field) | The proportion of null values.