**StarRocks**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink CDC. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-cdc-docs-stable/>).

#  StarRocks Connector #

StarRocks connector can be used as the _Data Sink_ of the pipeline, and write data to [StarRocks](<https://github.com/StarRocks/starrocks>). This document describes how to set up the StarRocks connector.

##  What can the connector do? #

  * Create table automatically if not exist
  * Schema change synchronization
  * Data synchronization

##  Example #

The pipeline for reading data from MySQL and sink to StarRocks can be defined as follows:


    source:
       type: mysql
       name: MySQL Source
       hostname: 127.0.0.1
       port: 3306
       username: admin
       password: pass
       tables: adb.\.*, bdb.user_table_[0-9]+, [app|web].order_\.*
       server-id: 5401-5404

    sink:
      type: starrocks
      name: StarRocks Sink
      jdbc-url: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:9030
      load-url: 127.0.0.1:8030
      username: root
      password: pass

    pipeline:
       name: MySQL to StarRocks Pipeline
       parallelism: 2


##  Connector Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---
type | required | (none) | String | Specify what connector to use, here should be `'starrocks'`.
name | optional | (none) | String | The name of the sink.
jdbc-url | required | (none) | String | The address that is used to connect to the MySQL server of the FE. You can specify multiple addresses, which must be separated by a comma (,). Format: `jdbc:mysql://fe_host1:fe_query_port1,fe_host2:fe_query_port2,fe_host3:fe_query_port3`.
load-url | required | (none) | String | The address that is used to connect to the HTTP server of the FE. You can specify multiple addresses, which must be separated by a semicolon (;). Format: `fe_host1:fe_http_port1;fe_host2:fe_http_port2`.
username | required | (none) | String | User name to use when connecting to the StarRocks database.
password | required | (none) | String | Password to use when connecting to the StarRocks database.
sink.label-prefix | optional | (none) | String | The label prefix used by Stream Load.
sink.connect.timeout-ms | optional | 30000 | Integer | The timeout for establishing HTTP connection. Valid values: 100 to 60000.
sink.wait-for-continue.timeout-ms | optional | 30000 | Integer | Timeout in millisecond to wait for 100-continue response from FE http server. Valid values: 3000 to 600000.
sink.buffer-flush.max-bytes | optional | 157286400 | Long | The maximum size of data that can be accumulated in memory before being sent to StarRocks at a time. The value ranges from 64 MB to 10 GB. This buffer is shared by all tables in the sink. If the buffer is full, the connector will choose one or more tables to flush.
sink.buffer-flush.interval-ms | optional | 300000 | Long | The interval at which data is flushed for each table. The unit is in millisecond.
sink.scan-frequency.ms | optional | 50 | Long | Scan frequency in milliseconds to check whether the buffered data for a table should be flushed because of reaching the flush interval.
sink.io.thread-count | optional | 2 | Integer | Number of threads used for concurrent stream loads among different tables.
sink.at-least-once.use-transaction-stream-load | optional | true | Boolean | Whether to use transaction stream load for at-least-once when it's available.
sink.metric.histogram-window-size | optional | 100 | Integer | Window size of histogram metrics.
sink.properties.* | optional | (none) | String | The parameters that control Stream Load behavior. For example, the parameter `sink.properties.timeout` specifies the timeout of Stream Load. For a list of supported parameters and their descriptions, see [ STREAM LOAD](<https://docs.starrocks.io/docs/sql-reference/sql-statements/loading_unloading/STREAM_LOAD>).
table.create.num-buckets | optional | (none) | Integer | Number of buckets when creating a StarRocks table automatically. For StarRocks 2.5 or later, it's not required to set the option because StarRocks can [ determine the number of buckets automatically](<https://docs.starrocks.io/docs/table_design/Data_distribution/#set-the-number-of-buckets>). For StarRocks prior to 2.5, you must set this option.
table.create.properties.* | optional | (none) | String | Properties used for creating a StarRocks table. For example: `'table.create.properties.fast_schema_evolution' = 'true'` will enable fast schema evolution if you are using StarRocks 3.2 or later. For more information, see [how to create a primary key table](<https://docs.starrocks.io/docs/table_design/table_types/primary_key_table>).
table.schema-change.timeout | optional | 30min | Duration | Timeout for a schema change on StarRocks side, and must be an integral multiple of seconds. StarRocks will cancel the schema change after timeout which will cause the sink failure.
unicode-char.max-bytes | optional | 3 | Integer | The maximum number of bytes allocated for each upstream character when mapping CHAR and VARCHAR types to StarRocks, whose length is measured in bytes. If the upstream source uses utf8mb4, set this option to 4 to avoid underestimating column lengths. The default value of 3 is retained for backward compatibility.
sink.socket.timeout-ms | optional | -1 | Integer | The time duration for which the HTTP client waits for data. The default value -1 means there is no timeout

##  Usage Notes #

  * Only support StarRocks primary key table, so the source table must have primary keys.

  * Not support exactly-once. The connector uses at-least-once + primary key table for idempotent writing.

  * For creating table automatically

    * the distribution keys are the same as the primary keys
    * there is no partition key
    * the number of buckets is controlled by `table.create.num-buckets`. If you are using StarRocks 2.5 or later, it’s not required to set the option because StarRocks can [determine the number of buckets automatically](<https://docs.starrocks.io/docs/table_design/Data_distribution/#set-the-number-of-buckets>), otherwise you must set the option.
  * For schema change synchronization

    * supports create/drop/truncate table, add/drop/rename columns and alter column types
    * the new column will always be added to the last position
    * if your StarRocks version is 3.2 or later, and using the connector to create table automatically, you can set `table.create.properties.fast_schema_evolution` to `true` to speed up the schema change.
  * For data synchronization, the pipeline connector uses [StarRocks Sink Connector](<https://github.com/StarRocks/starrocks-connector-for-apache-flink>) to write data to StarRocks. You can see [sink documentation](<https://github.com/StarRocks/starrocks-connector-for-apache-flink/blob/main/docs/content/connector-sink.md>) for how it works.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Flink CDC type | StarRocks type | Note
---|---|---
TINYINT | TINYINT |
SMALLINT | SMALLINT |
INT | INT |
BIGINT | BIGINT |
FLOAT | FLOAT |
DOUBLE | DOUBLE |
DECIMAL(p, s) | DECIMAL(p, s) |
BOOLEAN | BOOLEAN |
DATE | DATE |
TIME | VARCHAR | StarRocks does not support TIME type, so it is mapped to VARCHAR. TIME values are stored as strings in format "HH:mm:ss" when the precision p = 0, or "HH:mm:ss.<p digits>" when p > 0 (for example, p = 3 uses "HH:mm:ss.SSS").
TIMESTAMP | DATETIME |
TIMESTAMP_LTZ | DATETIME |
CHAR(n) where n * unicode-char.max-bytes <= 255 and not primary key | CHAR(n * unicode-char.max-bytes) | CDC defines the length by characters, and StarRocks defines it by bytes. The StarRocks length is calculated as n * unicode-char.max-bytes. Because the max length of StarRocks CHAR is 255, map CDC CHAR to StarRocks CHAR only when the calculated length is no larger than 255. If the column is part of the primary key, it is mapped to VARCHAR instead.
CHAR(n) where n * unicode-char.max-bytes > 255, or primary key | VARCHAR(min(n * unicode-char.max-bytes, 1048576)) | CDC defines the length by characters, and StarRocks defines it by bytes. The StarRocks length is calculated as n * unicode-char.max-bytes. Because the max length of StarRocks CHAR is 255, map CDC CHAR to StarRocks VARCHAR when the calculated length exceeds 255. Primary key CHAR columns are also mapped to VARCHAR.
VARCHAR(n) | VARCHAR(min(n * unicode-char.max-bytes, 1048576)) | CDC defines the length by characters, and StarRocks defines it by bytes. The StarRocks length is calculated as n * unicode-char.max-bytes and capped at 1048576.
BINARY(n) | VARBINARY(min(n,1048576)) | The length is capped to 1048576.
VARBINARY(n) | VARBINARY(min(n,1048576)) | The length is capped to 1048576.
BYTES | VARBINARY(1048576) | BYTES is mapped to VARBINARY with max length 1048576.

__Back to top