**Quick Start**

> This documentation is for an unreleased version of Apache Flink Machine Learning Library. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<https://ci.apache.org/projects/flink/flink-ml-docs-stable/>).

#  Quick Start #

This document provides a quick introduction to using Flink ML. Readers of this document will be guided to submit a simple Flink job that trains a Machine Learning Model and uses it to provide prediction service.

##  Help, I’m Stuck! #

If you get stuck, check out the [community support resources](<https://flink.apache.org/gettinghelp.html>). In particular, Apache Flink’s [user mailing list](<https://flink.apache.org/community.html#mailing-lists>) is consistently ranked as one of the most active of any Apache project and a great way to get help quickly.

##  Prerequisites #

Make sure Java 8 or a higher version has been installed in your local machine. To check the Java version installed, type in your terminal:


    $ java -version


##  Download Flink #

Download [Flink 1.17](<https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html>), then extract the archive:


    $ tar -xzf flink-*.tgz


##  Set Up Flink Environment Variables #

Run the following commands after having downloaded Flink:


    cd ${path_to_flink}
    export FLINK_HOME=`pwd`


##  Add Flink ML library to Flink’s library folder #

You need to copy Flink ML’s library files to Flink’s folder for proper initialization.

Please walk through this [guideline](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-ml-docs-master/docs/development/build-and-install/#build-and-install-java-sdk>) to build Flink ML’s Java SDK. After that, you may copy the generated library files to Flink’s folder with the following commands.


    cd ${path_to_flink_ml}
    cp ./flink-ml-dist/target/flink-ml-*-bin/flink-ml*/lib/*.jar $FLINK_HOME/lib/


##  Run Flink ML example job #

Please start a Flink standalone cluster in your local environment with the following command.


    $FLINK_HOME/bin/start-cluster.sh


You should be able to navigate to the web UI at [localhost:8081](<http://localhost:8081/>) to view the Flink dashboard and see that the cluster is up and running.

Then you may submit Flink ML examples to the cluster as follows.


    $FLINK_HOME/bin/flink run -c org.apache.flink.ml.examples.clustering.KMeansExample $FLINK_HOME/lib/flink-ml-examples*.jar


The command above would submit and execute Flink ML’s `KMeansExample` job. There are also example jobs for other Flink ML algorithms, and you can find them in `flink-ml-examples` module.

A sample output in your terminal is as follows.


    Features: [9.0, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 1
    Features: [0.3, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 0
    Features: [0.0, 0.3]    Cluster ID: 0
    Features: [9.6, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 1
    Features: [0.0, 0.0]    Cluster ID: 0
    Features: [9.0, 0.6]    Cluster ID: 1



Now you have successfully run a Flink ML job.

Finally, you can stop the Flink standalone cluster with the following command.


    $FLINK_HOME/bin/stop-cluster.sh