**Quick Start**

#  Quick Start #

This document provides a quick introduction to using the Flink Kubernetes Operator. Readers of this document will be able to deploy the Flink operator itself and an example Flink job to a local Kubernetes installation.

##  Prerequisites #

We assume that you have a local installations of the following:

  1. [docker](<https://docs.docker.com/>)
  2. [kubernetes](<https://kubernetes.io/>)
  3. [helm](<https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/>)

So that the `kubectl` and `helm` commands are available on your local system.

For docker we recommend that you have [Docker Desktop](<https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>) installed and configured with at least 8GB of RAM. For kubernetes [minikube](<https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/>) is our choice, at the time of writing this we are using version v1.28.0 (end-to-end tests are using the same version). You can start a cluster with the following command:


    minikube start --kubernetes-version=v1.28.0
    😄  minikube v1.28.0 on Darwin 13.0.1
    ✨  Automatically selected the docker driver. Other choices: hyperkit, ssh
    📌  Using Docker Desktop driver with root privileges
    👍  Starting control plane node minikube in cluster minikube
    🚜  Pulling base image ...
    🔥  Creating docker container (CPUs=2, Memory=4000MB) ...
    🐳  Preparing Kubernetes v1.28.0 on Docker 20.10.20 ...
        ▪ Generating certificates and keys ...
        ▪ Booting up control plane ...
        ▪ Configuring RBAC rules ...
    🔎  Verifying Kubernetes components...
        ▪ Using image gcr.io/k8s-minikube/storage-provisioner:v5
    🌟  Enabled addons: default-storageclass, storage-provisioner
    🏄  Done! kubectl is now configured to use "minikube" cluster and "default" namespace by default


We also recommend [k9s](<https://k9scli.io/>) as GUI for kubernetes, but it is optional for this quickstart guide.

##  Deploying the operator #

Install the certificate manager on your Kubernetes cluster to enable adding the webhook component (only needed once per Kubernetes cluster):


    kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.18.2/cert-manager.yaml


> In case the cert manager installation failed for any reason you can disable the webhook by passing `--set webhook.create=false` to the helm install command for the operator.

Now you can deploy the selected stable Flink Kubernetes Operator version using the included Helm chart:


    helm repo add flink-operator-repo https://downloads.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-1.15.0/
    helm install flink-kubernetes-operator flink-operator-repo/flink-kubernetes-operator


To find the list of stable versions please visit <https://flink.apache.org/downloads.html>

> The Helm chart by default points to the `ghcr.io/apache/flink-kubernetes-operator` image repository. If you have connectivity issues or prefer to use Dockerhub instead you can use `--set image.repository=apache/flink-kubernetes-operator` during installation.

You may verify your installation via `kubectl` and `helm`:


    kubectl get pods
    NAME READY STATUS RESTARTS AGE
    flink-kubernetes-operator-fb5d46f94-ghd8b 2/2 Running 0 4m21s

    helm list
    NAME NAMESPACE REVISION UPDATED STATUS CHART APP VERSION
    flink-kubernetes-operator default 1 2022-03-09 17 (tel:12022030917):39:55.461359 +0100 CET deployed flink-kubernetes-operator-1.15.0 1.15.0


##  Submitting a Flink job #

Once the operator is running as seen in the previous step you are ready to submit a Flink job:


    kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apache/flink-kubernetes-operator/release-1.15/examples/basic.yaml


You may follow the logs of your job, after a successful startup (which can take on the order of a minute in a fresh environment, seconds afterwards) you can:


    kubectl logs -f deploy/basic-example

    2022-03-11 21:46:04,458 INFO  org.apache.flink.runtime.checkpoint.CheckpointCoordinator    [] - Triggering checkpoint 206 (type=CHECKPOINT) @ 1647035164458 for job a12c04ac7f5d8418d8ab27931bf517b7.
    2022-03-11 21:46:04,465 INFO  org.apache.flink.runtime.checkpoint.CheckpointCoordinator    [] - Completed checkpoint 206 for job a12c04ac7f5d8418d8ab27931bf517b7 (28509 bytes, checkpointDuration=7 ms, finalizationTime=0 ms).
    2022-03-11 21:46:06,458 INFO  org.apache.flink.runtime.checkpoint.CheckpointCoordinator    [] - Triggering checkpoint 207 (type=CHECKPOINT) @ 1647035166458 for job a12c04ac7f5d8418d8ab27931bf517b7.
    2022-03-11 21:46:06,483 INFO  org.apache.flink.runtime.checkpoint.CheckpointCoordinator    [] - Completed checkpoint 207 for job a12c04ac7f5d8418d8ab27931bf517b7 (28725 bytes, checkpointDuration=25 ms, finalizationTime=0 ms).


To expose the Flink Dashboard you may add a port-forward rule or look the [ingress configuration options](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-kubernetes-operator-docs-release-1.15/zh/docs/operations/ingress/>):


    kubectl port-forward svc/basic-example-rest 8081


Now the Flink Dashboard is accessible at [localhost:8081](<http://localhost:8081/>).

In order to stop your job and delete your FlinkDeployment you can:


    kubectl delete flinkdeployment/basic-example