**Overview**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/concepts/overview/>).

#  Concepts #

The [Hands-on Training](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/learn-flink/overview/>) explains the basic concepts of stateful and timely stream processing that underlie Flink’s APIs, and provides examples of how these mechanisms are used in applications. Stateful stream processing is introduced in the context of [Data Pipelines & ETL](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/learn-flink/etl/#stateful-transformations>) and is further developed in the section on [Fault Tolerance](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/learn-flink/fault_tolerance/>). Timely stream processing is introduced in the section on [Streaming Analytics](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/learn-flink/streaming_analytics/>).

This _Concepts in Depth_ section provides a deeper understanding of how Flink’s architecture and runtime implement these concepts.

##  Flink’s APIs #

Flink offers different levels of abstraction for developing streaming/batch applications.

  * The lowest level abstraction simply offers **stateful and timely stream processing**. It is embedded into the [DataStream API](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/dev/datastream/overview/>) via the [Process Function](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/dev/datastream/operators/process_function/>). It allows users to freely process events from one or more streams, and provides consistent, fault tolerant _state_. In addition, users can register event time and processing time callbacks, allowing programs to realize sophisticated computations.

  * In practice, many applications do not need the low-level abstractions described above, and can instead program against the **Core APIs** : the [DataStream API](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/dev/datastream/overview/>) (bounded/unbounded streams). These fluent APIs offer the common building blocks for data processing, like various forms of user-specified transformations, joins, aggregations, windows, state, etc. Data types processed in these APIs are represented as classes in the respective programming languages.

The low level _Process Function_ integrates with the _DataStream API_ , making it possible to use the lower-level abstraction on an as-needed basis.

  * The **Table API** is a declarative DSL centered around _tables_ , which may be dynamically changing tables (when representing streams). The [Table API](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/dev/table/overview/>) follows the (extended) relational model: Tables have a schema attached (similar to tables in relational databases) and the API offers comparable operations, such as select, project, join, group-by, aggregate, etc. Table API programs declaratively define _what logical operation should be done_ rather than specifying exactly _how the code for the operation looks_. Though the Table API is extensible by various types of user-defined functions, it is less expressive than the _Core APIs_ , and more concise to use (less code to write). In addition, Table API programs also go through an optimizer that applies optimization rules before execution.

One can seamlessly convert between tables and _DataStream_ , allowing programs to mix the _Table API_ with the _DataStream API_.

  * The highest level abstraction offered by Flink is **SQL**. This abstraction is similar to the _Table API_ both in semantics and expressiveness, but represents programs as SQL query expressions. The [SQL](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-2.2/docs/dev/table/overview/#sql>) abstraction closely interacts with the Table API, and SQL queries can be executed over tables defined in the _Table API_.