**Pulsar**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/datastream/pulsar/>).

#  Apache Pulsar Connector #

Flink provides an [Apache Pulsar](<https://pulsar.apache.org>) connector for reading and writing data from and to Pulsar topics with exactly-once guarantees.

##  Dependency #

You can use the connector with the Pulsar 3.0.0 or higher. It is recommended to always use the latest Pulsar version. The details on Pulsar compatibility can be found in [PIP-72](<https://github.com/apache/pulsar/wiki/PIP-72%3A-Introduce-Pulsar-Interface-Taxonomy%3A-Audience-and-Stability-Classification>).


    &ltdependency&gt
        &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
        &ltartifactId&gtflink-connector-pulsar&lt/artifactId&gt
        &ltversion&gt4.2.0-1.20&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!

In order to use the in PyFlink jobs, the following dependencies are required:

Version | PyFlink JAR | flink-connector-pulsar | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-sql-connector-pulsar/4.2.0-1.20/flink-sql-connector-pulsar-4.2.0-1.20.jar>)
---|---
See [Python dependency management](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/python/dependency_management/#jar-dependencies>) for more details on how to use JARs in PyFlink.

Flink’s streaming connectors are not part of the binary distribution. See how to link with them for cluster execution [here](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/configuration/overview/>).

##  Pulsar Source #

> This part describes the Pulsar source based on the new [data source](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/sources/>) API.

###  Usage #

The Pulsar source provides a builder class for constructing a PulsarSource instance. The code snippet below builds a PulsarSource instance. It consumes messages from the earliest cursor of the topic “persistent://public/default/my-topic” in **Exclusive** subscription type (`my-subscription`) and deserializes the raw payload of the messages as strings.

Java


    PulsarSource<String> source = PulsarSource.builder()
        .setServiceUrl(serviceUrl)
        .setStartCursor(StartCursor.earliest())
        .setTopics("my-topic")
        .setDeserializationSchema(new SimpleStringSchema())
        .setSubscriptionName("my-subscription")
        .build();

    env.fromSource(source, WatermarkStrategy.noWatermarks(), "Pulsar Source");


Python


    pulsar_source = PulsarSource.builder() \
        .set_service_url('pulsar://localhost:6650') \
        .set_admin_url('http://localhost:8080') \
        .set_start_cursor(StartCursor.earliest()) \
        .set_topics("my-topic") \
        .set_deserialization_schema(SimpleStringSchema()) \
        .set_subscription_name('my-subscription') \
        .build()

    env.from_source(source=pulsar_source,
                    watermark_strategy=WatermarkStrategy.for_monotonous_timestamps(),
                    source_name="pulsar source")


The following properties are **required** for building a PulsarSource:

  * Pulsar service URL, configured by `setServiceUrl(String)`
  * Pulsar service HTTP URL (also known as admin URL), configured by `setAdminUrl(String)`
  * Pulsar subscription name, configured by `setSubscriptionName(String)`
  * Topics / partitions to subscribe, see the following topic-partition subscription for more details.
  * Deserializer to parse Pulsar messages, see the following deserializer for more details.

It is recommended to set the consumer name in Pulsar Source by `setConsumerName(String)`. This sets a unique name for the Flink connector in the Pulsar statistic dashboard. You can use it to monitor the performance of your Flink connector and applications.

###  Topic-partition Subscription #

Pulsar source provide two ways of topic-partition subscription:

  * Topic list, subscribing messages from all partitions in a list of topics. For example:

Java

        PulsarSource.builder().setTopics("some-topic1", "some-topic2");

        // Partition 0 and 2 of topic "topic-a"
        PulsarSource.builder().setTopics("topic-a-partition-0", "topic-a-partition-2");


Python

        PulsarSource.builder().set_topics(["some-topic1", "some-topic2"])

        # Partition 0 and 2 of topic "topic-a"
        PulsarSource.builder().set_topics(["topic-a-partition-0", "topic-a-partition-2"])


  * Topic pattern, subscribing messages from all topics whose name matches the provided regular expression. For example:

Java

        PulsarSource.builder().setTopicPattern("topic-.*");


Python

        PulsarSource.builder().set_topic_pattern("topic-.*")


####  Flexible Topic Naming #

Since Pulsar 2.0, all topic names internally are in a form of `{persistent|non-persistent}://tenant/namespace/topic`. Now, for partitioned topics, you can use short names in many cases (for the sake of simplicity). The flexible naming system stems from the fact that there is now a default topic type, tenant, and namespace in a Pulsar cluster.

Topic property | Default
---|---
topic type | `persistent`
tenant | `public`
namespace | `default`

This table lists a mapping relationship between your input topic name and the translated topic name:

Input topic name | Translated topic name
---|---
`my-topic` | `persistent://public/default/my-topic`
`my-tenant/my-namespace/my-topic` | `persistent://my-tenant/my-namespace/my-topic`

> For non-persistent topics, you need to specify the entire topic name, as the default-based rules do not apply for non-partitioned topics. Thus, you cannot use a short name like `non-persistent://my-topic` and need to use `non-persistent://public/default/my-topic` instead.

####  Subscribing Pulsar Topic Partition #

Internally, Pulsar divides a partitioned topic as a set of non-partitioned topics according to the partition size.

For example, if a `simple-string` topic with 3 partitions is created under the `sample` tenant with the `flink` namespace. The topics on Pulsar would be:

Topic name | Partitioned
---|---
`persistent://sample/flink/simple-string` | Y
`persistent://sample/flink/simple-string-partition-0` | N
`persistent://sample/flink/simple-string-partition-1` | N
`persistent://sample/flink/simple-string-partition-2` | N

You can directly consume messages from the topic partitions by using the non-partitioned topic names above. For example, use `PulsarSource.builder().setTopics("sample/flink/simple-string-partition-1", "sample/flink/simple-string-partition-2")` would consume the partitions 1 and 2 of the `sample/flink/simple-string` topic.

####  Setting Topic Patterns #

The Pulsar source can subscribe to a set of topics under only one tenant and one namespace by using regular expression. But the topic type (`persistent` or `non-persistent`) isn’t determined by the regular expression. Even if you use `PulsarSource.builder().setTopicPattern("non-persistent://public/default/my-topic.*")`, we will subscribe both `persistent` and `non-persistent` topics which its name matches `public/default/my-topic.*`.

In order to subscribe only `non-persistent` topics. You need to set the `RegexSubscriptionMode` to `RegexSubscriptionMode.NonPersistentOnly`. For example, `setTopicPattern("topic-.*", RegexSubscriptionMode.NonPersistentOnly)`. And use `setTopicPattern("topic-.*", RegexSubscriptionMode.PersistentOnly)` will only subscribe to the `persistent` topics.

The regular expression should follow the topic naming pattern. Only the topic name part can be a regular expression. For example, if you provide a simple topic regular expression like `some-topic-\d`, we will filter all the topics under the `public` tenant with the `default` namespace. And if the topic regular expression is `flink/sample/topic-.*`, we will filter all the topics under the `flink` tenant with the `sample` namespace.

> Currently, the latest released Pulsar 2.11.0 didn’t return the `non-persistent` topics correctly. You can’t use regular expression for filtering `non-persistent` topics in Pulsar 2.11.0.
>
> See this issue: <https://github.com/apache/pulsar/issues/19316> for the detailed context of this bug.

###  Deserializer #

A deserializer (`PulsarDeserializationSchema`) is for decoding Pulsar messages from bytes. You can configure the deserializer using `setDeserializationSchema(PulsarDeserializationSchema)`. The `PulsarDeserializationSchema` defines how to deserialize a Pulsar `Message<byte[]>`.

If only the raw payload of a message (message data in bytes) is needed, you can use the predefined `PulsarDeserializationSchema`. Pulsar connector provides three implementation methods.

  * Decode the message by using Pulsar’s [Schema](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/schema-understand/>). If using KeyValue type or Struct types, the pulsar `Schema` does not contain type class info. But it is still needed to construct `PulsarSchemaTypeInformation`. So we provide two more APIs to pass the type info.

        // Primitive types
        PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(Schema);

        // Struct types (JSON, Protobuf, Avro, etc.)
        PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(Schema, Class);

        // KeyValue type
        PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(Schema, Class, Class);


  * Decode the message by using Flink’s `DeserializationSchema`

        PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(DeserializationSchema);


  * Decode the message by using Flink’s `TypeInformation`

        PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(TypeInformation, ExecutionConfig);


Pulsar `Message<byte[]>` contains some [extra properties](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/concepts-messaging/#messages>), such as message key, message publish time, message time, and application-defined key/value pairs etc. These properties could be defined in the `Message<byte[]>` interface.

If you want to deserialize the Pulsar message by these properties, you need to implement `PulsarDeserializationSchema`. Ensure that the `TypeInformation` from the `PulsarDeserializationSchema.getProducedType()` is correct. Flink uses this `TypeInformation` to pass the messages to downstream operators.

####  Schema Evolution in Source #

[Schema evolution](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/schema-evolution-compatibility/#schema-evolution>) can be enabled by users using Pulsar’s `Schema` and `PulsarSourceBuilder.enableSchemaEvolution()`. This means that any broker schema validation is in place.


    Schema<SomePojo> schema = Schema.AVRO(SomePojo.class);

    PulsarSource<SomePojo> source = PulsarSource.builder()
        ...
        .setDeserializationSchema(schema, SomePojo.class)
        .enableSchemaEvolution()
        .build();


If you use Pulsar schema without enabling schema evolution, we will bypass the schema check. This may cause some errors when you use a wrong schema to deserialize the messages.

####  Use Auto Consume Schema #

Pulsar provides `Schema.AUTO_CONSUME()` for consuming message without a predefined schema. This is always used when the topic has multiple schemas and may not be compatible with each other. Pulsar will auto decode the message into a `GenericRecord` for the user.

But the `PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(Schema)` method doesn’t support the `Schema.AUTO_CONSUME()`. Instead, we provide the `GenericRecordDeserializer` for deserializing the `GenericRecord`. You can implement this interface and set it in the `PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(GenericRecordDeserializer)`.


    GenericRecordDeserializer<SomePojo> deserializer = ...
    PulsarSource<SomePojo> source = PulsarSource.builder()
        ...
        .setDeserializationSchema(deserializer)
        .build();


> Currently, auto consume schema only supports AVRO, JSON and Protobuf schemas.

###  Define a RangeGenerator #

Ensure that you have provided a `RangeGenerator` implementation if you want to consume a subset of keys on the Pulsar connector. The `RangeGenerator` generates a set of key hash ranges so that a respective reader subtask only dispatches messages where the hash of the message key is contained in the specified range.

Since the Pulsar didn’t expose the key hash range method. We have to provide an `FixedKeysRangeGenerator` for end-user. You can add the keys you want to consume, no need to calculate any hash ranges. The key’s hash isn’t specified to only one key, so the consuming results may contain the messages with different keys comparing the keys you have defined in this range generator. Remember to use flink’s `DataStream.filter()` method after the Pulsar source.


    FixedKeysRangeGenerator.builder()
        .supportNullKey()
        .key("someKey")
        .keys(Arrays.asList("key1", "key2"))
        .build()


###  Starting Position #

The Pulsar source is able to consume messages starting from different positions by setting the `setStartCursor(StartCursor)` option. Built-in start cursors include:

  * Start from the earliest available message in the topic.

Java

        StartCursor.earliest();


Python

        StartCursor.earliest()


  * Start from the latest available message in the topic.

Java

        StartCursor.latest();


Python

        StartCursor.latest()


  * Start from a specified message between the earliest and the latest. The Pulsar connector consumes from the latest available message if the message ID does not exist.

The start message is included in consuming result.

Java

        StartCursor.fromMessageId(MessageId);


Python

        StartCursor.from_message_id(message_id)


  * Start from a specified message between the earliest and the latest. The Pulsar connector consumes from the latest available message if the message ID doesn’t exist.

Include or exclude the start message by using the second boolean parameter.

Java

        StartCursor.fromMessageId(MessageId, boolean);


Python

        StartCursor.from_message_id(message_id, boolean)


  * Start from the specified message publish time by `Message<byte[]>.getPublishTime()`. This method is deprecated because the name is totally wrong which may cause confuse. You can use `StartCursor.fromPublishTime(long)` instead.

Java

        StartCursor.fromMessageTime(long);


Python

        StartCursor.from_message_time(int)


  * Start from the specified message publish time by `Message<byte[]>.getPublishTime()`.

Java

        StartCursor.fromPublishTime(long);


Python

        StartCursor.from_publish_time(int)


The `StartCursor` is used when the corresponding subscription is not created in Pulsar by default. The priority of the consumption start position is, checkpoint > existed subscription position > `StartCursor`. Sometimes, the end user may want to force the start position by using `StartCursor`. You should enable the `pulsar.source.resetSubscriptionCursor` option and start the pipeline without the saved checkpoint files. It is important to note that the given consumption position in the checkpoint is always the highest priority.

> Each Pulsar message belongs to an ordered sequence on its topic. The sequence ID (`MessageId`) of the message is ordered in that sequence. The `MessageId` contains some extra information (the ledger, entry, partition) about how the message is stored, you can create a `MessageId` by using `DefaultImplementation.newMessageId(long ledgerId, long entryId, int partitionIndex)`.

###  Boundedness #

The Pulsar source supports streaming and batch execution mode. By default, the `PulsarSource` is configured for unbounded data.

For unbounded data the Pulsar source never stops until a Flink job is stopped or failed. You can use the `setUnboundedStopCursor(StopCursor)` to set the Pulsar source to stop at a specific stop position.

You can use `setBoundedStopCursor(StopCursor)` to specify a stop position for bounded data.

Built-in stop cursors include:

  * The Pulsar source never stops consuming messages.

Java

        StopCursor.never();


Python

        StopCursor.never()


  * Stop at the latest available message when the Pulsar source starts consuming messages.

Java

        StopCursor.latest();


Python

        StopCursor.latest()


  * Stop when the connector meets a given message, or stop at a message which is produced after this given message.

Java

        StopCursor.atMessageId(MessageId);


Python

        StopCursor.at_message_id(message_id)


  * Stop but include the given message in the consuming result.

Java

        StopCursor.afterMessageId(MessageId);


Python

        StopCursor.after_message_id(message_id)


  * Stop at the specified event time by `Message<byte[]>.getEventTime()`. The message with the given event time won’t be included in the consuming result.

Java

        StopCursor.atEventTime(long);


Python

        StopCursor.at_event_time(int)


  * Stop after the specified event time by `Message<byte[]>.getEventTime()`. The message with the given event time will be included in the consuming result.

Java

        StopCursor.afterEventTime(long);


Python

        StopCursor.after_event_time(int)


  * Stop at the specified publish time by `Message<byte[]>.getPublishTime()`. The message with the given publish time won’t be included in the consuming result.

Java

        StopCursor.atPublishTime(long);


Python

        StopCursor.at_publish_time(int)


  * Stop after the specified publish time by `Message<byte[]>.getPublishTime()`. The message with the given publish time will be included in the consuming result.

Java

        StopCursor.afterPublishTime(long);


Python

        StopCursor.after_publish_time(int)


###  Source Configurable Options #

In addition to configuration options described above, you can set arbitrary options for `PulsarClient`, `PulsarAdmin`, Pulsar `Consumer` and `PulsarSource` by using `setConfig(ConfigOption<T>, T)`, `setConfig(Configuration)` and `setConfig(Properties)`.

####  PulsarClient Options #

The Pulsar connector uses the [client API](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/client-libraries-java/>) to create the `Consumer` instance. The Pulsar connector extracts most parts of Pulsar’s `ClientConfigurationData`, which is required for creating a `PulsarClient`, as Flink configuration options in `PulsarOptions`.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### pulsar.client.authParamMap

| (none) | Map | Parameters for the authentication plugin.

##### pulsar.client.authParams

| (none) | String | Parameters for the authentication plugin.

Example:
`key1:val1,key2:val2`

##### pulsar.client.authPluginClassName

| (none) | String | Name of the authentication plugin.

##### pulsar.client.concurrentLookupRequest

| 5000 | Integer | The number of concurrent lookup requests allowed to send on each broker connection to prevent overload on the broker. It should be configured with a higher value only in case of it requires to produce or subscribe on thousands of topic using a created `PulsarClient`

##### pulsar.client.connectionMaxIdleSeconds

| 180 | Integer | Release the connection if it is not used for more than [connectionMaxIdleSeconds] seconds. If [connectionMaxIdleSeconds] < 0, disabled the feature that auto release the idle connections

##### pulsar.client.connectionTimeoutMs

| 10000 | Integer | Duration (in ms) of waiting for a connection to a broker to be established.
If the duration passes without a response from a broker, the connection attempt is dropped.

##### pulsar.client.connectionsPerBroker

| 1 | Integer | The maximum number of connections that the client library will open to a single broker.
By default, the connection pool will use a single connection for all the producers and consumers. Increasing this parameter may improve throughput when using many producers over a high latency connection.

##### pulsar.client.dnsLookupBindAddress

| (none) | String | The Pulsar client dns lookup bind address, default behavior is bind on `0.0.0.0:0` The default port is `0` which means random port. The max allowed port is `65535`. The bind address should in `host:port` format.

##### pulsar.client.enableBusyWait

| false | Boolean | Option to enable busy-wait settings.
This option will enable spin-waiting on executors and IO threads in order to reduce latency during context switches. The spinning will consume 100% CPU even when the broker is not doing any work. It is recommended to reduce the number of IO threads and BookKeeper client threads to only have fewer CPU cores busy.

##### pulsar.client.enableTransaction

| false | Boolean | If transaction is enabled, start the `transactionCoordinatorClient` with `PulsarClient`.

##### pulsar.client.initialBackoffIntervalNanos

| 100000000 | Long | Default duration (in nanoseconds) for a backoff interval.

##### pulsar.client.keepAliveIntervalSeconds

| 30 | Integer | Interval (in seconds) for keeping connection between the Pulsar client and broker alive.

##### pulsar.client.listenerName

| (none) | String | Configure the `listenerName` that the broker will return the corresponding `advertisedListener`.

##### pulsar.client.lookupTimeoutMs

| -1 | Integer | Client lookup timeout (in milliseconds).
Lookup operations have a different load pattern to other operations. They can be handled by any broker, are not proportional to throughput, and are harmless to retry. Given this, it makes sense to allow them to retry longer than normal operation, especially if they experience a timeout.
By default, this is set to match operation timeout. This is to maintain legacy behaviour. However, in practice it should be set to 5-10x the operation timeout.

##### pulsar.client.maxBackoffIntervalNanos

| 60000000000 | Long | The maximum duration (in nanoseconds) for a backoff interval.

##### pulsar.client.maxLookupRedirects

| 20 | Integer | The maximum number of times a lookup-request redirections to a broker.

##### pulsar.client.maxLookupRequest

| 50000 | Integer | The maximum number of lookup requests allowed on each broker connection to prevent overload on the broker. It should be greater than `pulsar.client.concurrentLookupRequest`. Requests that inside `pulsar.client.concurrentLookupRequest` are already sent to broker, and requests beyond `pulsar.client.concurrentLookupRequest` and under `maxLookupRequests` will wait in each client cnx.

##### pulsar.client.maxNumberOfRejectedRequestPerConnection

| 50 | Integer | The maximum number of rejected requests of a broker in a certain period (30s) after the current connection is closed and the client creates a new connection to connect to a different broker.

##### pulsar.client.memoryLimitBytes

| 67108864 | Long | The limit (in bytes) on the amount of direct memory that will be allocated by this client instance.
Setting this to `0` will disable the limit.

##### pulsar.client.numIoThreads

| 1 | Integer | The number of threads used for handling connections to brokers.

##### pulsar.client.numListenerThreads

| 1 | Integer | The number of threads used for handling message listeners. The listener thread pool is shared across all the consumers and readers that are using a `listener` model to get messages. For a given consumer, the listener is always invoked from the same thread to ensure ordering.

##### pulsar.client.operationTimeoutMs

| 30000 | Integer | Operation timeout (in ms). Operations such as creating producers, subscribing or unsubscribing topics are retried during this interval. If the operation is not completed during this interval, the operation will be marked as failed.

##### pulsar.client.proxyProtocol

| SNI | Enum | Protocol type to determine the type of proxy routing when a client connects to the proxy using `pulsar.client.proxyServiceUrl`.

Possible values:

  * "SNI"



##### pulsar.client.proxyServiceUrl

| (none) | String | Proxy-service URL when a client connects to the broker via the proxy. The client can choose the type of proxy-routing.

##### pulsar.client.requestTimeoutMs

| 60000 | Integer | Maximum duration (in ms) for completing a request. This config option is not supported before Pulsar 2.8.1

##### pulsar.client.serviceUrl

| (none) | String | Service URL provider for Pulsar service.
To connect to Pulsar using client libraries, you need to specify a Pulsar protocol URL.
You can assign Pulsar protocol URLs to specific clusters and use the Pulsar scheme.

  * This is an example of `localhost`: `pulsar://localhost:6650`.
  * If you have multiple brokers, the URL is as: `pulsar://localhost:6550,localhost:6651,localhost:6652`
  * A URL for a production Pulsar cluster is as: `pulsar://pulsar.us-west.example.com:6650`
  * If you use TLS authentication, the URL is as `pulsar+ssl://pulsar.us-west.example.com:6651`



##### pulsar.client.socks5ProxyAddress

| (none) | String | Address of SOCKS5 proxy. It should in `host:port` format.

##### pulsar.client.socks5ProxyPassword

| (none) | String | Password of SOCKS5 proxy.

##### pulsar.client.socks5ProxyUsername

| (none) | String | User name of SOCKS5 proxy.

##### pulsar.client.sslProvider

| (none) | String | The name of the security provider used for SSL connections. The default value is the default security provider of the JVM.

##### pulsar.client.statsIntervalSeconds

| 60 | Long | Interval between each stats info.

  * Stats is activated with positive `statsInterval`
  * Set `statsIntervalSeconds` to 1 second at least.



##### pulsar.client.tlsAllowInsecureConnection

| false | Boolean | Whether the Pulsar client accepts untrusted TLS certificate from the broker.

##### pulsar.client.tlsCertificateFilePath

| (none) | String | Path to the TLS certificate file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsCiphers

|  | List<String> | A list of cipher suites. This is a named combination of authentication, encryption, MAC and the key exchange algorithm used to negotiate the security settings for a network connection using the TLS or SSL network protocol. By default all the available cipher suites are supported.

##### pulsar.client.tlsHostnameVerificationEnable

| false | Boolean | Whether to enable TLS hostname verification. It allows to validate hostname verification when a client connects to the broker over TLS. It validates incoming x509 certificate and matches provided hostname (CN/SAN) with the expected broker's host name. It follows RFC 2818, 3.1. Server Identity hostname verification.

##### pulsar.client.tlsKeyFilePath

| (none) | String | Path to the TLS key file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsKeyStorePassword

| (none) | String | The store password for the key store file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsKeyStorePath

| (none) | String | The location of the key store file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsKeyStoreType

| "JKS" | String | The file format of the key store file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsProtocols

|  | List<String> | The SSL protocol used to generate the SSLContext. By default, it is set TLS, which is fine for most cases. Allowed values in recent JVMs are TLS, TLSv1.3, TLSv1.2 and TLSv1.1.

##### pulsar.client.tlsTrustCertsFilePath

| (none) | String | Path to the trusted TLS certificate file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsTrustStorePassword

| (none) | String | The store password for the key store file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsTrustStorePath

| (none) | String | The location of the trust store file.

##### pulsar.client.tlsTrustStoreType

| "JKS" | String | The file format of the trust store file.

##### pulsar.client.useKeyStoreTls

| false | Boolean | If TLS is enabled, whether use the KeyStore type as the TLS configuration parameter. If it is set to `false`, it means to use the default pem type configuration.

##### pulsar.client.useTcpNoDelay

| true | Boolean | Whether to use the TCP no-delay flag on the connection to disable Nagle algorithm.
No-delay features ensures that packets are sent out on the network as soon as possible, and it is critical to achieve low latency publishes. On the other hand, sending out a huge number of small packets might limit the overall throughput. Therefore, if latency is not a concern, it is recommended to set this option to `false`.
By default, it is set to `true`.

####  Pulsar Consumer Options #

In general, Pulsar provides the Reader API and Consumer API for consuming messages in different scenarios. The Pulsar connector uses the Consumer API. It extracts most parts of Pulsar’s `ConsumerConfigurationData` as Flink configuration options in `PulsarSourceOptions`.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### pulsar.consumer.ackReceiptEnabled

| false | Boolean | Acknowledgement will return a receipt but this does not mean that the message will not be resent after getting the receipt.

##### pulsar.consumer.ackTimeoutMillis

| 0 | Long | The timeout (in ms) for unacknowledged messages, truncated to the nearest millisecond. The timeout needs to be greater than 1 second.
By default, the acknowledge timeout is disabled and that means that messages delivered to a consumer will not be re-delivered unless the consumer crashes.
When acknowledgement timeout being enabled, if a message is not acknowledged within the specified timeout it will be re-delivered to the consumer.

##### pulsar.consumer.acknowledgementsGroupTimeMicros

| 100000 | Long | Group a consumer acknowledgment for a specified time (in μs). By default, a consumer uses `100μs` grouping time to send out acknowledgments to a broker. If the group time is set to `0`, acknowledgments are sent out immediately. A longer ack group time is more efficient at the expense of a slight increase in message re-deliveries after a failure.

##### pulsar.consumer.autoAckOldestChunkedMessageOnQueueFull

| false | Boolean | Buffering a large number of outstanding uncompleted chunked messages can bring memory pressure and it can be guarded by providing this `pulsar.consumer.maxPendingChunkedMessage` threshold. Once a consumer reaches this threshold, it drops the outstanding unchunked-messages by silently acknowledging if `pulsar.consumer.autoAckOldestChunkedMessageOnQueueFull` is true. Otherwise, it marks them for redelivery.

##### pulsar.consumer.autoScaledReceiverQueueSizeEnabled

| true | Boolean | This option is enabled by default. The consumer receiver queue size is initialized with 1, and will double itself until it reaches the value set by `pulsar.consumer.receiverQueueSize`.
The feature should be able to reduce client memory usage.

##### pulsar.consumer.consumerName

| (none) | String | The consumer name is informative and it can be used to identify a particular consumer instance from the topic stats.

##### pulsar.consumer.cryptoFailureAction

| FAIL | Enum | The consumer should take action when it receives a message that can not be decrypted.

  * `FAIL`: this is the default option to fail messages until crypto succeeds.
  * `DISCARD`: silently acknowledge but do not deliver messages to an application.
  * `CONSUME`: deliver encrypted messages to applications. It is the application's responsibility to decrypt the message.


Fail to decompress the messages.
If messages contain batch messages, a client is not be able to retrieve individual messages in batch.
The delivered encrypted message contains `EncryptionContext` which contains encryption and compression information in. You can use an application to decrypt the consumed message payload.

Possible values:

  * "FAIL"
  * "DISCARD"
  * "CONSUME"



##### pulsar.consumer.deadLetterPolicy.deadLetterTopic

| (none) | String | Name of the dead topic where the failed messages are sent.

##### pulsar.consumer.deadLetterPolicy.maxRedeliverCount

| (none) | Integer | The maximum number of times that a message are redelivered before being sent to the dead letter queue.

##### pulsar.consumer.deadLetterPolicy.retryLetterTopic

| (none) | String | Name of the retry topic where the failed messages are sent.

##### pulsar.consumer.expireTimeOfIncompleteChunkedMessageMillis

| 60000 | Long | If a producer fails to publish all the chunks of a message, the consumer can expire incomplete chunks if the consumer cannot receive all chunks in expire times (default 1 hour, in ms).

##### pulsar.consumer.maxPendingChunkedMessage

| 10 | Integer | The consumer buffers chunk messages into memory until it receives all the chunks of the original message. While consuming chunk-messages, chunks from the same message might not be contiguous in the stream and they might be mixed with other messages' chunks. So, consumer has to maintain multiple buffers to manage chunks coming from different messages. This mainly happens when multiple publishers are publishing messages on the topic concurrently or publishers failed to publish all chunks of the messages.
For example, there are M1-C1, M2-C1, M1-C2, M2-C2 messages.Messages M1-C1 and M1-C2 belong to the M1 original message while M2-C1 and M2-C2 belong to the M2 message.
Buffering a large number of outstanding uncompleted chunked messages can bring memory pressure and it can be guarded by providing this `pulsar.consumer.maxPendingChunkedMessage` threshold. Once, a consumer reaches this threshold, it drops the outstanding unchunked messages by silently acknowledging or asking the broker to redeliver messages later by marking it unacknowledged. This behavior can be controlled by the `pulsar.consumer.autoAckOldestChunkedMessageOnQueueFull` option.

##### pulsar.consumer.maxTotalReceiverQueueSizeAcrossPartitions

| 50000 | Integer | The maximum total receiver queue size across partitions.
This setting reduces the receiver queue size for individual partitions if the total receiver queue size exceeds this value.

##### pulsar.consumer.negativeAckRedeliveryDelayMicros

| 60000000 | Long | Delay (in μs) to wait before redelivering messages that failed to be processed.
When an application uses `Consumer.negativeAcknowledge(Message)`, failed messages are redelivered after a fixed timeout.

##### pulsar.consumer.poolMessages

| false | Boolean | Enable pooling of messages and the underlying data buffers.

##### pulsar.consumer.priorityLevel

| 0 | Integer | Priority level for a consumer to which a broker gives more priorities while dispatching messages in the subscription.
The broker follows descending priorities. For example, 0=max-priority, 1, 2,...

Example 1
If a subscription has consumer A with `priorityLevel` 0 and consumer B with `priorityLevel` 1, then the broker only dispatches messages to consumer A until it runs out permits and then starts dispatching messages to consumer B.
Example 2
Consumer Priority, Level, Permits C1, 0, 2 C2, 0, 1 C3, 0, 1 C4, 1, 2 C5, 1, 1
The order in which a broker dispatches messages to consumers is: C1, C2, C3, C1, C4, C5, C4.

##### pulsar.consumer.properties

|  | Map | A name or value property of this consumer. `properties` is application defined metadata attached to a consumer. When getting a topic stats, associate this metadata with the consumer stats for easier identification.

##### pulsar.consumer.readCompacted

| false | Boolean | If enabling `readCompacted`, a consumer reads messages from a compacted topic rather than reading a full message backlog of a topic.
A consumer only sees the latest value for each key in the compacted topic, up until reaching the point in the topic message when compacting backlog. Beyond that point, send messages as normal.
Only enabling `readCompacted` on subscriptions to persistent topics, which have a single active consumer (like failure or exclusive subscriptions).
Attempting to enable it on subscriptions to non-persistent topics leads to a subscription call throwing a `PulsarClientException`.

##### pulsar.consumer.receiverQueueSize

| 1000 | Integer | Size of a consumer's receiver queue.
For example, the number of messages accumulated by a consumer before an application calls `Receive`.
A value higher than the default value increases consumer throughput, though at the expense of more memory utilization.

##### pulsar.consumer.replicateSubscriptionState

| false | Boolean | If `replicateSubscriptionState` is enabled, a subscription state is replicated to geo-replicated clusters.

##### pulsar.consumer.retryEnable

| false | Boolean | If enabled, the consumer will automatically retry messages.

##### pulsar.consumer.subscriptionMode

| Durable | Enum | Select the subscription mode to be used when subscribing to the topic.

  * `Durable`: Make the subscription to be backed by a durable cursor that will retain messages and persist the current position.
  * `NonDurable`: Lightweight subscription mode that doesn't have a durable cursor associated



Possible values:

  * "Durable"
  * "NonDurable"



##### pulsar.consumer.subscriptionName

| (none) | String | Specify the subscription name for this consumer. This argument is required when constructing the consumer.

##### pulsar.consumer.subscriptionProperties

| (none) | Map | Subscription properties is an optional attribute, which can be set when subscribing to topic. These properties cannot be modified. We can only delete the subscription and create it again.

##### pulsar.consumer.tickDurationMillis

| 1000 | Long | Granularity (in ms) of the ack-timeout redelivery.
A greater (for example, 1 hour) `tickDurationMillis` reduces the memory overhead to track messages.

####  PulsarSource Options #

The configuration options below are mainly used for customizing the performance and message acknowledgement behavior. You can ignore them if you do not have any performance issues.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### pulsar.source.allowKeySharedOutOfOrderDelivery

| false | Boolean | If enabled, it will relax the ordering requirement, allowing the broker to send out-of-order messages in case of failures. This will make it faster for new consumers to join without being stalled by an existing slow consumer.
In this case, a single consumer will still receive all the keys, but they may be coming in different orders.

##### pulsar.source.autoCommitCursorInterval

| 5000 | Long | This option is used only when the user disables the checkpoint and uses Exclusive or Failover subscription. We would automatically commit the cursor using the given period (in ms).

##### pulsar.source.enableAutoAcknowledgeMessage

| false | Boolean | Flink commits the consuming position with pulsar transactions on checkpoint. However, if you have disabled the Flink checkpoint or disabled transaction for your Pulsar cluster, ensure that you have set this option to `true`.
The source would use pulsar client's internal mechanism and commit cursor in a given interval.

##### pulsar.source.enableMetrics

| true | Boolean | The metrics from Pulsar Consumer are only exposed if you enable this option.You should set the `pulsar.client.statsIntervalSeconds` to a positive value if you enable this option.

##### pulsar.source.enableSchemaEvolution

| false | Boolean | If you enable this option and use `PulsarSourceBuilder.setDeserializationSchema(Schema)`, we would consume and deserialize the message by using Pulsar's `Schema` interface with extra schema evolution check.

##### pulsar.source.fetchOneMessageTime

| (none) | Integer | The time (in ms) for fetching one message from Pulsar. If time exceed and no message returned from Pulsar. We would consider there is no record at the current topic partition and stop fetching until next switch.
It's not configured by default. We will use the remaining time in `pulsar.source.maxFetchTime` by default, which may cause a long wait in small message rates. Add this option in source builder avoiding waiting too long.

##### pulsar.source.maxFetchRecords

| 100 | Integer | The maximum number of records to fetch to wait when polling. A longer time increases throughput but also latency. A fetch batch might be finished earlier because of `pulsar.source.maxFetchTime`.

##### pulsar.source.maxFetchTime

| 10000 | Long | The maximum time (in ms) to wait when fetching records. A longer time increases throughput but also latency. A fetch batch might be finished earlier because of `pulsar.source.maxFetchRecords`.

##### pulsar.source.partitionDiscoveryIntervalMs

| 300000 | Long | The interval (in ms) for the Pulsar source to discover the new partitions. A non-positive value disables the partition discovery.

##### pulsar.source.resetSubscriptionCursor

| false | Boolean | The `StartCursor` in connector is used to create the initial subscription. Enable this option will reset the start cursor in subscription by using `StartCursor` everytime you start the application without the checkpoint.

##### pulsar.source.verifyInitialOffsets

| WARN_ON_MISMATCH | Enum | Upon (re)starting the source, check whether the expected message can be read. If failure is enabled, the application fails. Otherwise, it logs a warning. A possible solution is to adjust the retention settings in Pulsar or ignoring the check result.

Possible values:

  * "FAIL_ON_MISMATCH": Fail the consuming from Pulsar when we don't find the related cursor.
  * "WARN_ON_MISMATCH": Print a warn message and start consuming from the valid offset.



###  Dynamic Partition Discovery #

To handle scenarios like topic scaling-out or topic creation without restarting the Flink job, the Pulsar source periodically discover new partitions under a provided topic-partition subscription pattern. To enable partition discovery, you can set a non-negative value for the `PulsarSourceOptions.PULSAR_PARTITION_DISCOVERY_INTERVAL_MS` option:

Java


    // discover new partitions per 10 seconds
    PulsarSource.builder()
        .setConfig(PulsarSourceOptions.PULSAR_PARTITION_DISCOVERY_INTERVAL_MS, 10000);


Python


    # discover new partitions per 10 seconds
    PulsarSource.builder()
        .set_config("pulsar.source.partitionDiscoveryIntervalMs", 10000)


>   * Partition discovery is **enabled** by default. The Pulsar connector queries the topic metadata every 5 minutes.
>   * To disable partition discovery, you need to set a negative partition discovery interval.
>   * Partition discovery is disabled for bounded data even if you set this option with a non-negative value.
>

###  Event Time and Watermarks #

By default, the message uses the timestamp embedded in Pulsar `Message<byte[]>` as the event time. You can define your own `WatermarkStrategy` to extract the event time from the message, and emit the watermark downstream:

Java


    env.fromSource(pulsarSource, new CustomWatermarkStrategy(), "Pulsar Source With Custom Watermark Strategy");


Python


    env.from_source(pulsar_source, CustomWatermarkStrategy(), "Pulsar Source With Custom Watermark Strategy")


[This documentation](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/dev/datastream/event-time/generating_watermarks/>) describes details about how to define a `WatermarkStrategy`.

###  Message Acknowledgement #

When a subscription is created, Pulsar [retains](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/concepts-architecture-overview/#persistent-storage>) all messages, even if the consumer is disconnected. The retained messages are discarded only when the connector acknowledges that all these messages are processed successfully.

We use `Exclusive` subscription as the default subscription type. It supports cumulative acknowledgment. In this subscription type, Flink only needs to acknowledge the latest successfully consumed message. All the message before the given message are marked with a consumed status.

The Pulsar source acknowledges the current consuming message when checkpoints are **completed** , to ensure the consistency between Flink’s checkpoint state and committed position on the Pulsar brokers.

If checkpointing is disabled, Pulsar source periodically acknowledges messages. You can use the `PulsarSourceOptions.PULSAR_AUTO_COMMIT_CURSOR_INTERVAL` option to set the acknowledgement period.

Pulsar source does **NOT** rely on committed positions for fault tolerance. Acknowledging messages is only for exposing the progress of consumers and monitoring on these two subscription types.

##  Pulsar Sink #

The Pulsar Sink supports writing records into one or more Pulsar topics or a specified list of Pulsar partitions.

> This part describes the Pulsar sink based on the new [data sink](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-191%3A+Extend+unified+Sink+interface+to+support+small+file+compaction>) API.
>
> If you still want to use the legacy `SinkFunction` or on Flink 1.14 or previous releases, just use the StreamNative’s [pulsar-flink](<https://github.com/streamnative/pulsar-flink>).

###  Usage #

The Pulsar Sink uses a builder class to construct the `PulsarSink` instance. This example writes a String record to a Pulsar topic with at-least-once delivery guarantee.

Java


    DataStream<String> stream = ...

    PulsarSink<String> sink = PulsarSink.builder()
        .setServiceUrl(serviceUrl)
        .setAdminUrl(adminUrl)
        .setTopics("topic1")
        .setSerializationSchema(new SimpleStringSchema())
        .setDeliveryGuarantee(DeliveryGuarantee.AT_LEAST_ONCE)
        .build();

    stream.sinkTo(sink);


Python


    stream = ...

    pulsar_sink = PulsarSink.builder() \
        .set_service_url('pulsar://localhost:6650') \
        .set_admin_url('http://localhost:8080') \
        .set_topics("topic1") \
        .set_serialization_schema(SimpleStringSchema()) \
        .set_delivery_guarantee(DeliveryGuarantee.AT_LEAST_ONCE) \
        .build()

    stream.sink_to(pulsar_sink)


The following properties are **required** for building PulsarSink:

  * Pulsar service url, configured by `setServiceUrl(String)`
  * Pulsar service http url (aka. admin url), configured by `setAdminUrl(String)`
  * Topics / partitions to write, see Producing to topics for more details.
  * Serializer to generate Pulsar messages, see serializer for more details.

It is recommended to set the producer name in Pulsar Source by `setProducerName(String)`. This sets a unique name for the Flink connector in the Pulsar statistic dashboard. You can use it to monitor the performance of your Flink connector and applications.

###  Producing to topics #

Defining the topics for producing is similar to the topic-partition subscription in the Pulsar source. We support a mix-in style of topic setting. You can provide a list of topics, partitions, or both of them.

Java


    // Topic "some-topic1" and "some-topic2"
    PulsarSink.builder().setTopics("some-topic1", "some-topic2")

    // Partition 0 and 2 of topic "topic-a"
    PulsarSink.builder().setTopics("topic-a-partition-0", "topic-a-partition-2")

    // Partition 0 and 2 of topic "topic-a" and topic "some-topic2"
    PulsarSink.builder().setTopics("topic-a-partition-0", "topic-a-partition-2", "some-topic2")


Python


    # Topic "some-topic1" and "some-topic2"
    PulsarSink.builder().set_topics(["some-topic1", "some-topic2"])

    # Partition 0 and 2 of topic "topic-a"
    PulsarSink.builder().set_topics(["topic-a-partition-0", "topic-a-partition-2"])

    # Partition 0 and 2 of topic "topic-a" and topic "some-topic2"
    PulsarSink.builder().set_topics(["topic-a-partition-0", "topic-a-partition-2", "some-topic2"])


The topics you provide support auto partition discovery. We query the topic metadata from the Pulsar in a fixed interval. You can use the `PulsarSinkOptions.PULSAR_TOPIC_METADATA_REFRESH_INTERVAL` option to change the discovery interval option.

Configuring writing targets can be replaced by using a custom [`TopicRouter`] message routing. Configuring partitions on the Pulsar connector is explained in the flexible topic naming section.

> If you build the Pulsar sink based on both the topic and its corresponding partitions, Pulsar sink merges them and only uses the topic.
>
> For example, when using the `PulsarSink.builder().setTopics("some-topic1", "some-topic1-partition-0")` option to build the Pulsar sink, this is simplified to `PulsarSink.builder().setTopics("some-topic1")`.

####  Dynamic Topics by incoming messages #

Topics could be defined by the incoming messages instead of providing the fixed topic set in builder. You can dynamically provide the topic by in a custom `TopicRouter`. The topic metadata can be queried by using `PulsarSinkContext.topicMetadata(String)` and the query result would be cached and expire in `PulsarSinkOptions.PULSAR_TOPIC_METADATA_REFRESH_INTERVAL` milliseconds.

If you want to write to a non-existed topic, just return it in `TopicRouter`. Pulsar connector will **try to create it**.

> You need to enable the topic auto creation in Pulsar’s `broker.conf` when you want to write messages to a non-existed topic. Set the `allowAutoTopicCreation=true` to enable it.
>
> The `allowAutoTopicCreationType` option in `broker.conf` is used to control the type of topic that is allowed to be automatically created.
>
>   * `non-partitioned`: The default type for the auto-created topic. It doesn’t have any partition and can’t be converted to a partitioned topic.
>   * `partitioned`: The topic will be created as a partitioned topic. Set the `defaultNumPartitions` option to control the auto created partition size.
>

###  Serializer #

A serializer (`PulsarSerializationSchema`) is required for serializing the record instance into bytes. Similar to `PulsarSource`, Pulsar sink supports both Flink’s `SerializationSchema` and Pulsar’s `Schema`. But Pulsar’s `Schema.AUTO_PRODUCE_BYTES()` is not supported.

If you do not need the message key and other message properties in Pulsar’s [Message](<https://pulsar.apache.org/api/client/2.10.x/org/apache/pulsar/client/api/Message.html>) interface, you can use the predefined `PulsarSerializationSchema`. The Pulsar sink provides two implementation methods.

  * Encode the message by using Pulsar’s [Schema](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/schema-understand/>).

        // Primitive types
        PulsarSinkBuilder.setSerializationSchema(Schema)

        // Struct types (JSON, Protobuf, Avro, etc.)
        PulsarSinkBuilder.setSerializationSchema(Schema, Class)

        // KeyValue type
        PulsarSinkBuilder.setSerializationSchema(Schema, Class, Class)


  * Encode the message by using Flink’s `SerializationSchema`

        PulsarSinkBuilder.setSerializationSchema(SerializationSchema)


####  Schema Evolution in Sink #

[Schema evolution](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/schema-evolution-compatibility/#schema-evolution>) can be enabled by users using Pulsar’s `Schema` and `PulsarSinkBuilder.enableSchemaEvolution()`. This means that any broker schema validation is in place.


    Schema<SomePojo> schema = Schema.AVRO(SomePojo.class);

    PulsarSink<SomePojo> sink = PulsarSink.builder()
        ...
        .setSerializationSchema(schema, SomePojo.class)
        .enableSchemaEvolution()
        .build();


> If you use Pulsar schema without enabling schema evolution, the target topic will have a `Schema.BYTES` schema. But `Schema.BYTES` isn’t stored in any Pulsar’s topic. An auto-created topic in this way will present no schema. Consumers will need to handle deserialization without Pulsar’s `Schema` (if needed) themselves.
>
> For example, if you set `PulsarSinkBuilder.setSerializationSchema(Schema.STRING)` without enabling schema evolution, the schema stored in Pulsar topics is `Schema.BYTES`.

####  PulsarMessage<byte[]> validation #

Pulsar topic always has at least one schema. The `Schema.BYTES` is the default one for any topic without schema being set. But sending messages bytes with `Schema.BYTES` bypass the schema validate. So the message sent with `SerializationSchema` and `Schema` which doesn’t enable the schema evolution may save the invalid messages in the topic.

You can enable the `pulsar.sink.validateSinkMessageBytes` option to let the connector use the Pulsar’s `Schema.AUTO_PRODUCE_BYTES()` which supports extra check for the message bytes before sending. It will query the latest schema in topic and use it to validate the message bytes.

But some schemas in Pulsar don’t support validation, so we disable this option by default. you should use it at your own risk.

####  Custom serializer #

You can have your own serialization logic by implementing the `PulsarSerializationSchema` interface. The return type for this interface is `PulsarMessage` which you can’t create it directly. Instead, we use builder method for creating three types of the Pulsar messages.

  * Create a message with a Pulsar `Scheme`. This is always when you know the schema in topic. We will check if the given schema is compatible in the correspond topic.

        PulsarMessage.builder(Schema<M> schema, M message)
            ...
            .build();


  * Create the message without any Pulsar `Scheme`. The message type can only be the byte array. It won’t validate the message bytes by default.

        PulsarMessage.builder(byte[] bytes)
            ...
            .build();


  * Create a tombstone message with empty payloads. [Tombstone](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tombstone_%28data_store%29>) is a special message which is supported in Pulsar.

        PulsarMessage.builder()
            ...
            .build();


###  Message Routing #

Routing in Pulsar Sink is operated on the partition level. For a list of partitioned topics, the routing algorithm first collects all partitions from different topics, and then calculates routing within all the partitions. By default, Pulsar Sink supports two router implementations.

  * `KeyHashTopicRouter`: use the hashcode of the message’s key to decide the topic partition that messages are sent to.

The message key is provided by `PulsarSerializationSchema.key(IN, PulsarSinkContext)` You need to implement this interface and extract the message key when you want to send the message with the same key to the same topic partition.

If you do not provide the message key. A topic partition is randomly chosen from the topic list.

The message key can be hashed in two ways: `MessageKeyHash.JAVA_HASH` and `MessageKeyHash.MURMUR3_32_HASH`. You can use the `PulsarSinkOptions.PULSAR_MESSAGE_KEY_HASH` option to choose the hash method.

  * `RoundRobinRouter`: Round-robin among all the partitions.

All messages are sent to the first partition, and switch to the next partition after sending a fixed number of messages. The batch size can be customized by the `PulsarSinkOptions.PULSAR_BATCHING_MAX_MESSAGES` option.

Let’s assume there are ten messages and two topics. Topic A has two partitions while topic B has three partitions. The batch size is set to five messages. In this case, topic A has 5 messages per partition which topic B does not receive any messages.

You can configure custom routers by using the `TopicRouter` interface. If you implement a `TopicRouter`, ensure that it is serializable. And you can return partitions which are not available in the pre-discovered partition list.

Thus, you do not need to specify topics using the `PulsarSinkBuilder.setTopics` option when you implement the custom topic router.


    @PublicEvolving
    public interface TopicRouter<IN> extends Serializable {

        TopicPartition route(IN in, List<TopicPartition> partitions, PulsarSinkContext context);

        default void open(SinkConfiguration sinkConfiguration) {
            // Nothing to do by default.
        }
    }


> Internally, a Pulsar partition is implemented as a topic. The Pulsar client provides APIs to hide this implementation detail and handles routing under the hood automatically. Pulsar Sink uses a lower client API to implement its own routing layer to support multiple topics routing.
>
> For details, see [partitioned topics](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/cookbooks-partitioned/>).

###  Delivery Guarantee #

`PulsarSink` supports three delivery guarantee semantics.

  * `NONE`: Data loss can happen even when the pipeline is running. Basically, we use a fire-and-forget strategy to send records to Pulsar topics in this mode. It means that this mode has the highest throughput.
  * `AT_LEAST_ONCE`: No data loss happens, but data duplication can happen after a restart from checkpoint.
  * `EXACTLY_ONCE`: No data loss happens. Each record is sent to the Pulsar broker only once. Pulsar Sink uses [Pulsar transaction](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/transactions/>) and two-phase commit (2PC) to ensure records are sent only once even after the pipeline restarts.

> If you want to use `EXACTLY_ONCE`, make sure you have enabled the checkpoint on Flink and enabled the transaction on Pulsar. The Pulsar sink will write all the messages in a pending transaction and commit it after the successfully checkpointing.
>
> The messages written to Pulsar after a pending transaction won’t be obtained based on the design of the Pulsar. You can acquire these messages only when the corresponding transaction is committed.

###  Delayed message delivery #

[Delayed message delivery](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/concepts-messaging/#delayed-message-delivery>) enables you to delay the possibility to consume a message. With delayed message enabled, the Pulsar sink sends a message to the Pulsar topic **immediately** , but the message is delivered to a consumer once the specified delay is over.

Delayed message delivery only works in the `Shared` subscription type. In `Exclusive` and `Failover` subscription types, the delayed message is dispatched immediately.

You can configure the `MessageDelayer` to define when to send the message to the consumer. The default option is to never delay the message dispatching. You can use the `MessageDelayer.fixed(Duration)` option to Configure delaying all messages in a fixed duration. You can also implement the `MessageDelayer` interface to dispatch messages at different time.

> The dispatch time should be calculated by the `PulsarSinkContext.processTime()`.

###  Sink Configurable Options #

You can set options for `PulsarClient`, `PulsarAdmin`, Pulsar `Producer` and `PulsarSink` by using `setConfig(ConfigOption<T>, T)`, `setConfig(Configuration)` and `setConfig(Properties)`.

####  Pulsar Producer Options #

The Pulsar connector uses the Producer API to send messages. It extracts most parts of Pulsar’s `ProducerConfigurationData` as Flink configuration options in `PulsarSinkOptions`.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### pulsar.producer.batchingEnabled

| true | Boolean | Enable batch send ability, it was enabled by default.

##### pulsar.producer.batchingMaxBytes

| 131072 | Integer | The maximum size of messages permitted in a batch. Keep the maximum consistent as previous versions.

##### pulsar.producer.batchingMaxMessages

| 1000 | Integer | The maximum number of messages permitted in a batch.

##### pulsar.producer.batchingMaxPublishDelayMicros

| 1000 | Long | Batching time period of sending messages.

##### pulsar.producer.batchingPartitionSwitchFrequencyByPublishDelay

| 10 | Integer | The maximum wait time for switching topic partitions.

##### pulsar.producer.chunkMaxMessageSize

| -1 | Integer | Max chunk message size in bytes. Producer chunks the message if chunking is enabled and message size is larger than max chunk-message size. By default, chunkMaxMessageSize value is -1 and producer chunks based on max-message size configured at the broker.

##### pulsar.producer.chunkingEnabled

| false | Boolean | If message size is higher than allowed max publish-payload size by broker, then enableChunking helps producer to split message into multiple chunks and publish them to broker separately and in order. So, it allows client to successfully publish large size of messages in pulsar.

##### pulsar.producer.compressionType

| NONE | Enum | Message data compression type used by a producer.Available options:

  * [LZ4](<https://github.com/lz4/lz4>)
  * [ZLIB](<https://zlib.net/>)
  * [ZSTD](<https://facebook.github.io/zstd/>)
  * [SNAPPY](<https://google.github.io/snappy/>)



Possible values:

  * "NONE"
  * "LZ4"
  * "ZLIB"
  * "ZSTD"
  * "SNAPPY"



##### pulsar.producer.initialSequenceId

| (none) | Long | The sequence id for avoiding the duplication, it's used when Pulsar doesn't have transaction.

##### pulsar.producer.producerCryptoFailureAction

| FAIL | Enum | The action the producer will take in case of encryption failures.

Possible values:

  * "FAIL"
  * "SEND"



##### pulsar.producer.producerName

| (none) | String | A producer name which would be displayed in the Pulsar's dashboard. If no producer name was provided, we would use a Pulsar generated name instead.

##### pulsar.producer.properties

|  | Map | A name or value property of this consumer. `properties` is application defined metadata attached to a consumer. When getting a topic stats, associate this metadata with the consumer stats for easier identification.

##### pulsar.producer.sendTimeoutMs

| 30000 | Long | Message send timeout in ms.If a message is not acknowledged by a server before the `sendTimeout` expires, an error occurs.

####  PulsarSink Options #

The configuration options below are mainly used for customizing the performance and message sending behavior. You can just leave them alone if you do not have any performance issues.

Key | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---

##### pulsar.sink.deliveryGuarantee

| none | Enum | Optional delivery guarantee when committing.

Possible values:

  * "exactly-once": Records are only delivered exactly-once also under failover scenarios. To build a complete exactly-once pipeline is required that the source and sink support exactly-once and are properly configured.
  * "at-least-once": Records are ensured to be delivered but it may happen that the same record is delivered multiple times. Usually, this guarantee is faster than the exactly-once delivery.
  * "none": Records are delivered on a best effort basis. It is often the fastest way to process records but it may happen that records are lost or duplicated.



##### pulsar.sink.enableMetrics

| true | Boolean | The metrics from Pulsar Producer are only exposed if you enable this option. You should set the `pulsar.client.statsIntervalSeconds` to a positive value if you enable this option.

##### pulsar.sink.enableSchemaEvolution

| false | Boolean | If you enable this option and use `PulsarSinkBuilder.setSerializationSchema(Schema)`, we would produce and serialize the message by using Pulsar's `Schema`.

##### pulsar.sink.maxRecommitTimes

| 5 | Integer | The allowed transaction recommit times if we meet some retryable exception. This is used in Pulsar Transaction.

##### pulsar.sink.messageKeyHash

| murmur-3-32-hash | Enum | The hash policy for routing message by calculating the hash code of message key.

Possible values:

  * "java-hash": This hash would use `String.hashCode()` to calculate the message key string's hash code.
  * "murmur-3-32-hash": This hash would calculate message key's hash code by using [Murmur3](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MurmurHash>) algorithm.



##### pulsar.sink.topicMetadataRefreshInterval

| 1800000 | Long | Auto update the topic metadata in a fixed interval (in ms). The default value is 30 minutes.

##### pulsar.sink.transactionTimeoutMillis

| 10800000 | Long | This option is used when the user require the `DeliveryGuarantee.EXACTLY_ONCE` semantic. We would use transaction for making sure the message could be write only once.

##### pulsar.sink.validateSinkMessageBytes

| false | Boolean | Pulsar client can validate the raw message bytes with the latest topic schema. This can make sure your serialized messages bytes is valid for consumer.

###  Brief Design Rationale #

Pulsar sink follow the Sink API defined in [FLIP-191](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-191%3A+Extend+unified+Sink+interface+to+support+small+file+compaction>).

####  Stateless SinkWriter #

In `EXACTLY_ONCE` mode, the Pulsar sink does not store transaction information in a checkpoint. That means that new transactions will be created after a restart. Therefore, any message in previous pending transactions is either aborted or timed out (They are never visible to the downstream Pulsar consumer). The Pulsar team is working to optimize the needed resources by unfinished pending transactions.

####  Pulsar Schema Evolution #

[Pulsar Schema Evolution](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/schema-evolution-compatibility/#schema-evolution>) allows you to reuse the same Flink job after certain “allowed” data model changes, like adding or deleting a field in a AVRO-based Pojo class. Please note that you can specify Pulsar schema validation rules and define an auto schema update. For details, refer to [Pulsar Schema Evolution](<https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/2.11.x/schema-evolution-compatibility/#schema-evolution>).

##  Monitor the Metrics #

The Pulsar client refreshes its stats every 60 seconds by default. To increase the metrics refresh frequency, you can change the Pulsar client stats refresh interval to a smaller value (minimum 1 second), as shown below.

Java


    builder.setConfig(PulsarOptions.PULSAR_STATS_INTERVAL_SECONDS, 1L);


Python


    builder.set_config("pulsar.client.statsIntervalSeconds", "1")


###  Source Metrics #

Flink defines common source metrics in [FLIP-33: Standardize Connector Metrics](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-33%3A+Standardize+Connector+Metrics>). Pulsar connector will expose some client metrics if you enable the `pulsar.source.enableMetrics` option. All the custom source metrics are listed in below table.

Java


    builder.setConfig(PulsarSourceOptions.PULSAR_ENABLE_SOURCE_METRICS, true);


Python


    builder.set_config("pulsar.source.enableMetrics", "true")


Metrics | User Variables | Description | Type
---|---|---|---
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.numMsgsReceived | Topic, ConsumerName | Number of messages received in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.numBytesReceived | Topic, ConsumerName | Number of bytes received in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.rateMsgsReceived | Topic, ConsumerName | Rate of bytes per second received in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.rateBytesReceived | Topic, ConsumerName | Rate of bytes per second received in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.numAcksSent | Topic, ConsumerName | Number of message acknowledgments sent in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.numAcksFailed | Topic, ConsumerName | Number of message acknowledgments failed in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.numReceiveFailed | Topic, ConsumerName | Number of message receive failed in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.numBatchReceiveFailed | Topic, ConsumerName | Number of message batch receive failed in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.totalMsgsReceived | Topic, ConsumerName | Total number of messages received by this consumer. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.totalBytesReceived | Topic, ConsumerName | Total number of bytes received by this consumer. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.totalReceivedFailed | Topic, ConsumerName | Total number of messages receive failures by this consumer. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.totalBatchReceivedFailed | Topic, ConsumerName | Total number of messages batch receive failures by this consumer. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.totalAcksSent | Topic, ConsumerName | Total number of message acknowledgments sent by this consumer. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.totalAcksFailed | Topic, ConsumerName | Total number of message acknowledgments failures on this consumer. | Gauge
PulsarConsumer.“Topic”.“ConsumerName”.msgNumInReceiverQueue | Topic, ConsumerName | The size of receiver queue on this consumer. | Gauge

###  Sink Metrics #

The below table lists supported sink metrics. The first 6 metrics are standard Pulsar Sink metrics as described in [FLIP-33: Standardize Connector Metrics](<https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/FLINK/FLIP-33%3A+Standardize+Connector+Metrics>).

The first 5 metrics are exposed to the flink metric system by default. You should enable the `pulsar.sink.enableMetrics` option to get the remaining metrics exposed.

Java


    builder.setConfig(PulsarSinkOptions.PULSAR_ENABLE_SINK_METRICS, true);


Python


    builder.set_config("pulsar.sink.enableMetrics", "true")


Metrics | User Variables | Description | Type
---|---|---|---
numBytesOut | n/a | The total number of output bytes since the sink starts. Count towards the numBytesOut in TaskIOMetricsGroup. | Counter
numBytesOutPerSecond | n/a | The output bytes per second. | Meter
numRecordsOut | n/a | The total number of output records since the sink starts. | Counter
numRecordsOutPerSecond | n/a | The output records per second. | Meter
numRecordsOutErrors | n/a | The total number of records failed to send. | Counter
currentSendTime | n/a | The time it takes to send the last record, from enqueue the message in client buffer to its ack. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.numMsgsSent | Topic, ProducerName | The number of messages published in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.numBytesSent | Topic, ProducerName | The number of bytes sent in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.numSendFailed | Topic, ProducerName | The number of failed send operations in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.numAcksReceived | Topic, ProducerName | The number of send acknowledges received by broker in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendMsgsRate | Topic, ProducerName | The messages send rate in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendBytesRate | Topic, ProducerName | The bytes send rate in the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendLatencyMillis50pct | Topic, ProducerName | The 50% of send latency in milliseconds for the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendLatencyMillis75pct | Topic, ProducerName | The 75% of send latency in milliseconds for the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendLatencyMillis95pct | Topic, ProducerName | The 95% of send latency in milliseconds for the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendLatencyMillis99pct | Topic, ProducerName | The 99% of send latency in milliseconds for the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendLatencyMillis999pct | Topic, ProducerName | The 99.9% of send latency in milliseconds for the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.sendLatencyMillisMax | Topic, ProducerName | The maximum send latency in milliseconds for the last interval. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.totalMsgsSent | Topic, ProducerName | The total number of messages published by this producer. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.totalBytesSent | Topic, ProducerName | The total number of bytes sent by this producer. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.totalSendFailed | Topic, ProducerName | The total number of failed send operations. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.totalAcksReceived | Topic, ProducerName | The total number of send acknowledges received by broker. | Gauge
PulsarProducer.“Topic”.“ProducerName”.pendingQueueSize | Topic, ProducerName | The current pending send-message queue size of the producer. | Gauge

>   * `numBytesOut`, `numRecordsOut` and `numRecordsOutErrors` are retrieved from Pulsar client metrics.
>
>   * `numBytesOutPerSecond` and `numRecordsOutPerSecond` are calculated based on the `numBytesOut` and `numRecordsOUt` counter respectively. Flink internally uses a fixed 60-seconds window to calculate the rates.
>
>   * `currentSendTime` tracks the time from when the producer calls `sendAync()` to the time when the broker acknowledges the message. This metric is not available in `NONE` delivery guarantee.
>
>

##  End-to-end encryption #

Flink can use Pulsar’s encryption to encrypt messages on the sink side and decrypt messages on the source side. Users should provide the public and private key pair to perform the encryption. Only with a valid key pair can decrypt the encrypted messages.

###  How to enable end-to-end encryption #

  1. Generate a set of key pairs.

Pulsar supports multiple ECDSA or RSA key pairs in the meantime, you can provide multiple key pairs. We will randomly choose a key pair to encrypt the message which makes the encryption more secure.

         # ECDSA (for Java clients only)
         openssl ecparam -name secp521r1 -genkey -param_enc explicit -out test_ecdsa_privkey.pem
         openssl ec -in test_ecdsa_privkey.pem -pubout -outform pem -out test_ecdsa_pubkey.pem

         # RSA
         openssl genrsa -out test_rsa_privkey.pem 2048
         openssl rsa -in test_rsa_privkey.pem -pubout -outform pkcs8 -out test_rsa_pubkey.pem


  2. Implement the `CryptoKeyReader` interface.

Each key pair should have a unique key name. Implement the `CryptoKeyReader` interface and make sure `CryptoKeyReader.getPublicKey()` and `CryptoKeyReader.getPrivateKey()` can return the corresponding key by the key name.

Pulsar provided a default `CryptoKeyReader` implementation named `DefaultCryptoKeyReader`. You can create it by using the `DefaultCryptoKeyReader.builder()`. And make sure the key pair files should be placed on the Flink running environment.

         // defaultPublicKey and defaultPrivateKey should be provided in this implementation.
         // The file:///path/to/default-public.key should be a valid path on Flink's running environment.
         CryptoKeyReader keyReader = DefaultCryptoKeyReader.builder()
             .defaultPublicKey("file:///path/to/default-public.key")
             .defaultPrivateKey("file:///path/to/default-private.key")
             .publicKey("key1", "file:///path/to/public1.key").privateKey("key1", "file:///path/to/private1.key")
             .publicKey("key2", "file:///path/to/public2.key").privateKey("key2", "file:///path/to/private2.key")
             .build();


  3. (Optional) Implement the `MessageCrypto<MessageMetadata, MessageMetadata>` interface.

Pulsar supports the **ECDSA** , **RSA** out of box. You don’t need to implement this interface if you use the common existing encryption methods. If you want to define a custom key pair based crypto method, just implement the `MessageCrypto<MessageMetadata, MessageMetadata>` interface. You can read the Pulsar’s default implementation, the `MessageCryptoBc`, for how to implement this crypto interface.

  4. Create `PulsarCrypto` instance.

`PulsarCrypto` is used for providing all the required information for encryption and decryption. You can use the builder method to create the instance.

         CryptoKeyReader keyReader = DefaultCryptoKeyReader.builder()
             .defaultPublicKey("file:///path/to/public1.key")
             .defaultPrivateKey("file:///path/to/private2.key")
             .publicKey("key1", "file:///path/to/public1.key").privateKey("key1", "file:///path/to/private1.key")
             .publicKey("key2", "file:///path/to/public2.key").privateKey("key2", "file:///path/to/private2.key")
             .build();

         // This line is only used as an example. It returns the default implementation of the MessageCrypto.
         SerializableSupplier<MessageCrypto<MessageMetadata, MessageMetadata>> cryptoSupplier = () -> new MessageCryptoBc();

         PulsarCrypto pulsarCrypto = PulsarCrypto.builder()
             .cryptoKeyReader(keyReader)
             // All the key name should be provided here, you can't encrypt the message with any non-existed key names.
             .addEncryptKeys("key1", "key2")
             // You don't have to provide the MessageCrypto.
             .messageCrypto(cryptoSupplier)
             .build()


###  Decrypt the message on the Pulsar source #

Follow the previous instruction to create a `PulsarCrypto` instance and pass it to the `PulsarSource.builder()`. You need to choose the decrypt failure action in the meantime. Pulsar has three types of failure action which defines in `ConsumerCryptoFailureAction`.

  * `ConsumerCryptoFailureAction.FAIL`: The Flink pipeline will crash and turn into a failed state.

  * `ConsumerCryptoFailureAction.DISCARD`: Message is silently drop and not delivered to the downstream.

  * `ConsumerCryptoFailureAction.CONSUME`

The message will not be decrypted and directly passed to downstream. You can decrypt the message in `PulsarDeserializationSchema`, the encryption information can be retrieved from `Message.getEncryptionCtx()`.



    PulsarCrypto pulsarCrypto = ...

    PulsarSource<String> sink = PulsarSource.builder()
        ...
        .setPulsarCrypto(pulsarCrypto, ConsumerCryptoFailureAction.FAIL)
        .build();


###  Encrypt the message on the Pulsar sink #

Follow the previous instruction to create a `PulsarCrypto` instance and pass it to the `PulsarSink.builder()`. You need to choose the encrypt failure action in the meantime. Pulsar has two types of failure action which defines in `ProducerCryptoFailureAction`.

  * `ProducerCryptoFailureAction.FAIL`: The Flink pipeline will crash and turn into a failed state.
  * `ProducerCryptoFailureAction.SEND`: Send the unencrypted messages.



    PulsarCrypto pulsarCrypto = ...

    PulsarSink<String> sink = PulsarSink.builder()
        ...
        .setPulsarCrypto(pulsarCrypto, ProducerCryptoFailureAction.FAIL)
        .build();


##  Upgrading to the Latest Connector Version #

The generic upgrade steps are outlined in [upgrading jobs and Flink versions guide](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.20/docs/ops/upgrading/>). The Pulsar connector does not store any state on the Flink side. The Pulsar connector pushes and stores all the states on the Pulsar side. For Pulsar, you additionally need to know these limitations:

  * Do not upgrade the Pulsar connector and Pulsar broker version at the same time.
  * Always use a newer Pulsar client with Pulsar connector to consume messages from Pulsar.

##  Troubleshooting #

If you have a problem with Pulsar when using Flink, keep in mind that Flink only wraps [PulsarClient](<https://pulsar.apache.org/api/client/2.10.x/>) or [PulsarAdmin](<https://pulsar.apache.org/api/admin/2.10.x/>) and your problem might be independent of Flink and sometimes can be solved by upgrading Pulsar brokers, reconfiguring Pulsar brokers or reconfiguring Pulsar connector in Flink.

__Back to top