**Data Types**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/dev/python/table/python_types/>).

#  Data Types #

This page describes the data types supported in PyFlink Table API.

##  Data Type #

A _data type_ describes the logical type of a value in the table ecosystem. It can be used to declare input and/or output types of Python user-defined functions. Users of the Python Table API work with instances of `pyflink.table.types.DataType` within the Python Table API or when defining user-defined functions.

A `DataType` instance declares the **logical type** which does not imply a concrete physical representation for transmission or storage. All pre-defined data types are available in `pyflink.table.types` and can be instantiated with the utility methods defined in `pyflink.table.types.DataTypes`.

A list of all pre-defined data types can be found [below](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.19/docs/dev/table/types/#list-of-data-types>).

##  Data Type and Python Type Mapping #

A _data type_ can be used to declare input and/or output types of Python user-defined functions. The inputs will be converted to Python objects corresponding to the data type and the type of the user-defined functions result must also match the defined data type.

For vectorized Python UDF, the input types and output type are `pandas.Series`. The element type of the `pandas.Series` corresponds to the specified data type.

Data Type | Python Type | Pandas Type
---|---|---
`BOOLEAN` | `bool` | `numpy.bool_`
`TINYINT` | `int` | `numpy.int8`
`SMALLINT` | `int` | `numpy.int16`
`INT` | `int` | `numpy.int32`
`BIGINT` | `int` | `numpy.int64`
`FLOAT` | `float` | `numpy.float32`
`DOUBLE` | `float` | `numpy.float64`
`VARCHAR` | `str` | `str`
`VARBINARY` | `bytes` | `bytes`
`DECIMAL` | `decimal.Decimal` | `decimal.Decimal`
`DATE` | `datetime.date` | `datetime.date`
`TIME` | `datetime.time` | `datetime.time`
`TimestampType` | `datetime.datetime` | `datetime.datetime`
`LocalZonedTimestampType` | `datetime.datetime` | `datetime.datetime`
`INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH` | `int` | `Not Supported Yet`
`INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND` | `datetime.timedelta` | `Not Supported Yet`
`ARRAY` | `list` | `numpy.ndarray`
`MULTISET` | `list` | `Not Supported Yet`
`MAP` | `dict` | `Not Supported Yet`
`ROW` | `Row` | `dict`