**Orc**

> This documentation is for an out-of-date version of Apache Flink. We recommend you use the latest [stable version](<//nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-stable/docs/connectors/table/formats/orc/>).

#  Orc Format #

Format: Serialization Schema Format: Deserialization Schema

The [Apache Orc](<https://orc.apache.org/>) format allows to read and write Orc data.

##  Dependencies #

In order to use the ORC format the following dependencies are required for both projects using a build automation tool (such as Maven or SBT) and SQL Client with SQL JAR bundles.

Maven dependency | SQL Client |


    &ltdependency&gt
      &ltgroupId&gtorg.apache.flink&lt/groupId&gt
      &ltartifactId&gtflink-orc_2.11&lt/artifactId&gt
      &ltversion&gt1.14.4&lt/version&gt
    &lt/dependency&gt

Copied to clipboard!  | [Download](<https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/apache/flink/flink-sql-orc_2.11/1.14.4/flink-sql-orc_2.11-1.14.4.jar>)
---|---

##  How to create a table with Orc format #

Here is an example to create a table using Filesystem connector and Orc format.


    CREATE TABLE user_behavior (
      user_id BIGINT,
      item_id BIGINT,
      category_id BIGINT,
      behavior STRING,
      ts TIMESTAMP(3),
      dt STRING
    ) PARTITIONED BY (dt) WITH (
     'connector' = 'filesystem',
     'path' = '/tmp/user_behavior',
     'format' = 'orc'
    )


##  Format Options #

Option | Required | Default | Type | Description
---|---|---|---|---

##### format

| required | (none) | String | Specify what format to use, here should be 'orc'.

Orc format also supports table properties from [Table properties](<https://orc.apache.org/docs/hive-config.html#table-properties>). For example, you can configure `orc.compress=SNAPPY` to enable snappy compression.

##  Data Type Mapping #

Orc format type mapping is compatible with Apache Hive. The following table lists the type mapping from Flink type to Orc type.

Flink Data Type | Orc physical type | Orc logical type
---|---|---
CHAR | bytes | CHAR
VARCHAR | bytes | VARCHAR
STRING | bytes | STRING
BOOLEAN | long | BOOLEAN
BYTES | bytes | BINARY
DECIMAL | decimal | DECIMAL
TINYINT | long | BYTE
SMALLINT | long | SHORT
INT | long | INT
BIGINT | long | LONG
FLOAT | double | FLOAT
DOUBLE | double | DOUBLE
DATE | long | DATE
TIMESTAMP | timestamp | TIMESTAMP
ARRAY | - | LIST
MAP | - | MAP
ROW | - | STRUCT